                                




                        by Kevin Williamson

                              Rewrite
                           July 31, 1995







A hand reaches for it, bringing the receiver up to the face of
CASEY BECKER, a young girl, no more than sixteen.  A friendly face
with innocent eyes.


        Hello.


            
        Hello.

Silence.


        Yes.


        Who is this?


        Who are you trying to reach?


        What number is this?


        What number are you trying to reach?


        I don't know.


        I think you have the wrong number.


        Do I?


        It happens. Take it easy.

CLICK! She hangs up the phone.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal
Casey in a living room, alone.  She moves from the living room to
the kitchen.  It's a nice house.  Affluent.

The phone RINGS again.



Casey grabs the portable.


        Hello.


        I'm sorry. I guess I dialed the wrong number.


        So why did you dial it again?


        To apologize.


        You're forgiven. Bye now.


        Wait, wait, don't hang up.

Casey stands in front of a sliding glass door.  It's pitch black
outside.


        What?


        I want to talk to you for a second.


        They've got 900 numbers for that. Seeya.

CLICK!  Casey hangs up.  A grin on her face.



A big country home with a huge sprawling lawn full of big oak
trees.  It sits alone with no neighbors in sight.

The phone RINGS again.



Popcorn sizzles in a pot on the stove.  Casey covers it with a
lid, reaching for the portable phone.


        Hello.


        Why don't you want to talk to me?


        Who is this?


        You tell me your name, I'll tell you mine.


            
        I don't think so.


        What's that noise?

Casey smiles, playing along, innocently.


        Popcorn.


        You're making popcorn?


        Uh-huh.


        I only eat popcorn at the movies.


        I'm getting ready to watch a video.


        Really? What?


        Just some scary movie.


        Do you like scary movies?


        Uh-huh.


        What's your favorite scary movie?

He's flirting with her.  Casey moves away from the stove and takes
a seat at the kitchen counter, directly in front of the glass
door.


        I don't know.


        You have to have a favorite.

Casey thinks for second.


        Uh...HALLOWEEN. You know, the one with the
        guy with the white mask who just sorta walks around
        and stalks the baby sitters. What's yours?


        Guess.


        Uh...NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET.


        Is that the one where the guy had knives
        for fingers?


        Yeah...Freddy Krueger.


        Freddy-that's right. I liked that movie.
        It was scary.


        The first one was, but the rest sucked.


        So, you gotta boyfriend?


            
        Why? You wanna ask me out?


        Maybe. Do you have a boyfriend?


        No.


        You never told me your name.

Casey smiles, twirling her hair.


        Why do you want to know my name?


        Because I want to know who I'm looking
        at.

Casey spins around like lightning facing the glass door.


        What did you say?


        I want to now who I'm talking to.


        That's not what you said.


        What do you think I said?

Casey CLICKS on the outside light.  A flood light illuminates the
backyard.  Her eyes survey the grounds.  But it's empty.  No one's
there.  She turns the light out.

On the stove, the popcorn POPS.


        I have to go now.


        Wait...I thought we were gonna go out.


        Nah, I don't think so...


        Don't hang up on me.


        Gotta go.


        Don't...

CLICK!  Casey hangs up.  She checks the glass door making sure
it's locked and then moves to the stove as...



She slides the popcorn from the stove, reaching for the phone.


        Yes?


        I told you not to hang up on me.


        What do you want?


        To talk.


        Dial someone else, okay?


        You getting scared?


        No-bored.

CLICK.  She hangs up.  The phone RINGS again.  She grabs it.


        Listen, asshole...


            




Total silence.  He has gotten her full attention.


        Is this some kind of a joke?


        More of a game, really.

Casey eyes the glass doors, then looks up the hallway to the front
doors...moving to it.  It's unlocked.  She bolts it.


        I'm two seconds from calling the police.


        They'd never make it in time.

Casey moves her face flush against the door, her eye looking
through the peephole.



A distorted view of the front porch.  It is empty.  She relaxes a
bit, relieved.


        What do you want?


            


Casey's jaw drops as total fear storms her face.  She hangs up the
phone, throwing it down on a side table when...



Casey leaps out of her skin.  She turns to the door as it chimes
again.


            
        Who's there?

Another CHIME.  She moves to it.


            
        Who's there?

No answer.  Fuck this.  It's time for the police.  She goes for
the portable phone. Just as she picks it up...



Casey almost drops it, losing her breath...

She brings it to her ear with trembling hands, saying
nothing...listening, waiting...

A long silence.  And then.


        You should never say "Who's there?".
        Don't you watch scary movies? It's a
        death wish.

Casey clutches the wall, nearly collapsing.  She tries her
damndest to hang tough.


        Look, enough is enough. You had your fun
        now you better leave me alone or else.


        Or else what?

CLOSE ON her face, her mind thinking, calculating...


        My boyfriend will be here any second and
        he'll be pissed when I tell him...


        I thought you didn't have a boyfriend.

Busted.  She holds steady.


        I lied. I do have a boyfriend and he'll
        be here any second and your ass better
        be gone.


        Sure...


        I swear it. And he's big and plays
        football and will beat the shit out
        of you.


        I'm getting scared.


        I'm telling you the truth.
        I lied before...


        I believe you...


        So you better leave.


        His name wouldn't be Steve, would it?

Silence.  Casey buckles at the knees, losing it.


        How do you know his name?


        Go to the back door and turn on the porch
        light--again.

Casey, terrified, forces herself to move.. staggering to the
kitchen...to the glass doors.  Her shaky hand finds the light
switch...she hits it.  The back yard is lit.

Sitting in a lawn chair in the middle of the backyard is a big,
line backer of a guy, her boyfriend...



tied and gagged.  He's been roughed up, but he's alive.
CLOSE ON his eyes..wide in fear..staring at his girlfriend,
pleading with her.


        Oh Goddddd...

Casey SCREAMS.  Her hand moves to the lock on the door.


        I wouldn't do that if I were you.

Terror rides Casey's face.  She's petrified.


        Where are you?


        Guess.

Her eyes search the yard, combing bushes, trees.  He could be
anywhere-anywhere.


            
        Please don't hurt him.


        That all depends on you.


        Why are you doing this?

Tears find their way, streaming down Casey's face.


        I wanna play a game.


        No...


        Then he dies. Right now.





        Which is it?

A long silence.  Casey touches the glass...staring at STEVE...this
big jock of a guy is crying too.


        What kind of game?


        Turn off the light.

Her hand goes to the switch...Steve tugs and pulls at his
straps...as if begging her...his face sweat and tears...



He disappears in the darkness.  Casey moves away from the glass,
back toward the living room, unbelieving, horrified.


        Here's how we play. I ask a question. If
        you get it right-Steve lives.

Three curtainless windows line one wall.  Casey crouches down
behind the couch, tipping a lamp cord from it's socket, darkening
the room.  Her body quivers.


        Please don't do this...


        Come on. It'll be fun.


        No...please.


        It's an easy category. Movie trivia.


            
        ..please...


        I'll even give you a warm up question.


        Don't do this. I can't..


        Name the killer in HALLOWEEN.


        No...


        Come on. It's you favorite scary movie,
        remember? He had a white mask, he
        stalked the baby-sitters.

Casey goes silent...a nervous wreck...she can barely speak much
less think.


        I don't know...


        Come on, yes you do.


        Please..stop...

Casey is SOBBING.


        What's his name?


        I can't think.

Casey has officially reached hysteria, petrified beyond all
reality.


        Steve's counting on you.

Suddenly...through tears...Godsent...


            
        Michael...Michael Myers.




Casey SIGHS...relieved.


        Now for the real question.





        But you're doing so well.


        Please go away! Leave us alone!


        Then answer the question. Same category.

Casey is a blubbering, wet mass on the floor.


        ..please..no...


        Name the killer in FRIDAY THE 13TH.

A mad smile purses Casey's lips.  She knows this.  She leaps up,
through tears, screaming...


        Jason! Jason!...JASON!

A slight PAUSE.


        I'm sorry. That's the wrong answer.


        No it's not. It was Jason.


        Afraid not.


        It was Jason. I saw that godamned movie
        twenty times. It was Jason.


        Then you should know Jason's MOTHER
        -Mrs.Vorhees was the original killer. Jason
        didn't show up until the sequel.

Casey is stupefied.


        You tricked me...


        Lucky, for you there's a bonus round.
        But poor Steve...I'm afraid...he's out.

This implication sends Casey running to the kitchen...to the glass
doors.  She flips on the porch lights to see...



eyes wide, sitting in the lawn chair...his belly gaping open...a
mass of blood and ripped flesh...his insides lay on the ground
between his feet...steam rising.

A SCREAM erupts from the bottom of her soul as Casey collapse on
the floor...nearly passing out.  CLOSE ON her face...pale and
ghostly white.  She SOBS.


        Final question. Are you ready?

She doesn't answer.  A long, maddening silence.  Casey reaches up
and CLICKS off the light, making Steve go away...wishing,
hoping...


        ..leave me alone..please...


        Answer the question and I will.

Casey is curled up on the floor like an infant, rocking slowly
back and forth.


        What door am I at?


        What?


        There are two doors to your house. A
        front door and a back one. If you answer
        correctly-you live.

From where Casey sits she can see both front and back doors.  She
deliberates...with her last bit of strength she tries to
strategize.  Eyeing both, the front door...the back door trying to
decide between the two.


        Don't make me...I can't...I won't.


        Your call.

In the darkness, Casey crawls to the kitchen counter-she leans up
and grabs a long, sharp knife.

Casey looks around her...she looks down the hall to the front
door...then turns back to the kitchen glass door as it suddenly...



as a lawn chair come flying through it.  Exploding glass sprays
everywhere.

This incites Casey like fire.  She springs to her feet...bolting
out of the kitchen as a SHADOW moves quickly through the shattered
doorframe.



Somewhere in the house, back flat against a window, listening to
FEET ON CRACKING GLASS.  She turns and unlocks the latch, quietly
sliding it up. She can hear him move through the foyer...to the
front door.

Casey lifts herself up and puts her legs through the window.  She
holds the knife in one hand, the phone in the other.

Casey eases out the window, fumbling, dropping the knife back in
the house.  She starts to reach for it.  Fuck it, she takes off...



Casey it at the back corner of the house.


        I can hear you. I know you're here.

Casey eases along a narrow path between a tall fence and the side
of the house...going for the front yard.  She must pass the three
curtainless windows.  She gets to the first one and peeks in...

The FIGURE has pulled open the foyer closet, searching for her.

Casey creeps along, to the next window, she looks in...the FIGURE
is completely on the other side of the room moving toward the hall
that leads to other parts of the house.

She moves further along the house...squeezing by hedges...to the
third window...she peeks in to the FIGURE...



His face covered with a ghostly white mask, inches from her...his
eyes piercing through...soulless...Casey SCREAMS BLOODY MURDER as
a hand...

CRASHES through the glass window grabbing hold of her neck...she
beats at him trying to free herself...her nails dig into his
arm...she wrenches from side to side...finally breaking free as
the hands disappear inside the house...



Casey sails around the corner of the house, eyeing the front door.
It remains closed.  Her eyes cover the sprawling country yard when
suddenly....



in the distance, coming down the road towards the house...she
recognizes them instantly.  Mom...Dad...she tears off across the
yard toward them...moving like lightning...

The car turns into the driveway...Casey SCREAMS, waving madly,
rushing by a tree as...



Casey stumbles back, catching her balance...the FIGURE moves on
her, arm poised high...a flash of silver...and Casey is struck,
across the chest.  She looks down to see her shirt blossoming
red...a look of bewilderment as she drops to one knee.

The knife rises again...Casey throws her hand forward...the blade
comes down...but it's blocked by the portable phone still in her
hand.  She turns staggering to...



A MIDDLE-AGED COUPLE emerge from the parked car.  They move to the
front door completely unaware of what's happening to their
daughter, only feet from them.



Casey stumbles forward...her parents ten feet away...she opens her
mouth to scream but no sound resonates...she is beyond
words...staggering, swaying...the FIGURE moving behind her.



Her parents approach the door


        That fish smelled strong.


        I told you to send it back.

The father discovers the front door ajar.  A puzzled look.  Casey
is right behind them with one arm outstretched.  If they'd only
turn around...

They enter the house and close the door as....

Casey collapses on the ground, clutching her bloody chest...the
FIGURE upon her.



The father sees straight back into the kitchen...the shattered
patio door.


        Jesus...


        What is it? Where's Casey?


            
        Casey? Casey?

In a split second they're both panic stricken.  The father begins
searching the house frantically.  The mother is hysterical.



CLOSE ON Casey...she's dragged by her feet through damp soil...the
life going fast from her body...her hand still clutching the
phone.



Back in the house.


        Where is she?


        Call the police.

The mother moves  to the phone in the foyer, picks it up...There
is no dial tone.  She jiggles the base.


            
        Casey? Where are you honey? Call the
        police, goddammit.


        The phone's dead.

The...the softest...faintest voice is heard...


            
        ..help me...


        She's here, God, I can hear her.
        Where's my baby?

The husband returns to the foyer finding his wife clinging to the
phone.


        Where is she?


        I can hear her. Oh Mother of God,
        I can hear her.

The father upturns the living room.


        Casey! Casey!


        Not my daughter...not my...

The husband grabs hold of his wife.


        Get in the car and drive down to
        the Mackenzie's.

The other throws the front door open and rushes out...the father
moves through the house when a SCREAM echoes out.  That of his
wife.  He tears off for the front door.



The father rushes out the door to find his wife, on her knees,
bent over, retching.  His eyes move beyond to a tree in the front
yard...his stomach fails him...his dinner rises...as he bares
witness to the single, most horrifying sight he'll ever see.

That of his only daughter as she hangs from a big oak
tree...strung up...very much dead...her stomach ripped open.









A teenage girl's room.  Neat and pinkish.  On the bed, amongst age-
old stuffed animals lie opened school books. The CAMERA PANS to a
desk against the wall where...



a young girl of 17, sits, her face glued to the computer monitor
in front of her.  CLOSE ON her face.  Sharp and clever with deep,
lonely eyes.  She's comfortable in a plain, flannel nightgown.

Her hands are at work, typing feverishly, when suddenly...



A noise behind her.  She turns abruptly, eyeing an open window
across the room. A SCRATCHING sound.  She stands and moves toward
it.



Sidney sticks her head out the window.  The late night wind hits
her face as a SHADOW appears just to the left of her, a hand
reaches out, grabs her and suddenly a FIGURE is on top of her...



Sid SCREAMS...pulling away from the figure...breaking free,
falling back onto the floor.


            
        Hey...it's just me.

Sid looks up to see...



A young, strapping boy of seventeen.  Handsome and alluring.  A
star quarterback/ class president type of guy.  He sports a smile
that could last for days.


        Billy? What the...


        I'm sorry. Don't hate me.


        What are you doing here?


        You sleep in THAT?

Billy pulls himself through the window.


            
        My dad's in the other room.


        I'll only stay a sec.

Suddenly...

The bedroom door BURSTS open.  The doorknob catches on the open
closet door behind it jamming it, holding it in place.


            
        What's going on in there?

Billy quickly rolls out of sight behind the bed.  Sidney unjams
the door to reveal...

MR. PRESCOTT, late 40's, a severe presence.  A distracted man,
nervous and pre-occupied.


        Are you okay?


        Can you knock?


        I heard screaming.


        No you didn't.


        No? Oh, well...I'm hitting the sack. My
        flight leaves first thing in the morning.
        Now the expo runs all weekend so I
        won't be back til Sunday. There's cash
        on the table and I'll be staying at the
        Raleigh Hilton...


        ..out at the airport...


        ..so call if you need me.


        Got it.

He gives the bedroom a quick once over.


        I coulda swore I heard screaming.

Sidney distracts him, giving him a peck on the cheek.


        Have a good trip.


        Sleep tight, sweetie.

He gives her a wink and pulls the door closed.  Billy reappears.


        Close call.


        What are you doing here?

Billy takes a flying leap and lands on the bed.


        It just occurred to me that I've never
        snuck through your bedroom window.


        Now that it's out of your system.


        And I was home, bored, watching
        television, THE EXORCIST was on
        and it got me thinking of you.


        Oh it did?


        Yeah, it was edited for TV. All the good
        stuff was cut out and I started thinking
        about us and how two years ago, we started
        off kinda hot and heavy, a nice solid "R"
        rating on our way to an NC17. And how
        things have changed and, lately, we're just
        sot of...edited for television.


        So you thought you could sneak in my
        window and we would  have little bump-
        bump.


        No, no. I wouldn't dream of breaking your
        underwear rule. I just thought we might do
        some on top of the clothes stuff.

She snuggles up next to him, planting a kiss on his lips.
Passionate and gentle.  He, however, reacts like a shark, moving
on top of her, his hands everywhere as he presses into
her...Sidney breaks away.


        Time to go, stud bucket.

Billy sits up.  His heart isn't racing...it's POUNDING.


        See what you do to me.

Sweat has popped out all over his forehead, his breathing heavy.


        You know what my dad will do to you?


        I'm going...I'm going.

He moves to the window.  She follows, motioning to his wound.


        I appreciate the romantic gesture.

She gives him a kiss goodnight.  Sweet and simple.


            
        Hey..about the sex stuff. I'm not trying
        to rush you. I was only half serious.

She kisses him again as he eases through the window.


        Would you settle for a PG-13
        relationship?


        What's that?

She pulls her flannel gown open for a split second...flashing her
left breast.  His mouth drops open...surprise, shock.  Their eyes
meet.  They share a smile.


        Get outa here.



CLOSE on Sidney snuggling her pillow, sleeping peacefully when...

THE RADIO ALARM BLASTS from the night table loud enough to wake
the dead.  Sidney bolts up.


            
        ..found brutally murdered...

CLICK.  Sidney, quick with the reflexes, shuts it off instantly.
A car trunk SLAMS shut outside.

Sidney pulls herself out of bed and leans to the window just in
time to see her Dad jumping in his car.  She half waves down at
him but he doesn't see her.  He's as good as gone, pulling out of
the driveway and disappearing down the road.

A moment as Sidney stands at the window, staring out after him.







THE CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL a picture perfect small town
school.  Old and charming.  Students come and go, moving about.
Nothing unusual, except for the...

six police cars, four news vans, flashing cameras, and crowds and
crowds of lookie-loo's gathered just off campus.



Sidney approaches the school seeing the commotion.  Four different
REPORTERS stand in front of four different cameras giving four
different news reports.

She moves passed a policeman standing guard.  Her interest peaked,
she stops at the first reporter who is...



Thirties.  He smart face is overshadowed by a flashy smile and a
massive mane of chemically enhanced hair.


            
        The small town of Bayboro, North Carolina
        was devastated last night when two young
        teenagers were found brutally butchered.
        Authorities have yet to issue a statement
        but our sources tell us that no arrest
        has been made and the murderer could
        strike again...

ON SIDNEY.  Moved, disturbed.  From behind, a finger taps her
shoulder.  She spins around to see...

Tatum Riley, same age, feisty, carefree.


        Do you believe this shit?


        What happened?

They break away from the crowd and head for school.


        Oh God! You don't know? Casey Becker
        and Steve Forrest were killed last night.


        No way.


        And not just killed, Sid. We're talking
        splatter movie killed-split open end to
        end.


        Casey Becker? She sits next to me in
        English.


        Not anymore. Her parents found her
        hanging from a tree. Her insides on the
        outside.


        Do they know who did it?


        Fucking clueless-they're interrogating
        the entire school. Teachers, students,
        staff, janitors...


        They think it's school-related?


        They don't know. Dewey said this is
        the worst crime they've ever seen.
        Even worse than...
            
        Well it's bad. They're bringing in the
        feds. This is big.

Sidney looks back at Gale, her face deeply pained.



A frumpy old woman, MRS. TATE, faces her class.  Her hands clasped
together.  A tragic look upon her face.


        ..a terrible tragedy. An unbearable
        loss. It's days like today we need
        prayer in school...

Sidney sits near the rear of the room.  The desk in front of her
sits vacant.  Sidney can't take her eyes of it.

The door opens and a student opens with a slip of paper.  He hand
s it to Mrs. Tate.


        Sidney. It appears to be your turn.



The room is at capacity...wall to wall with police, and the likes.
Some sit, stand, lean...

SHERIFF BURKE, a round man in his fifties, wipes the stress from
his face.


        Who's up next?

A young officer looks at the clipboard.  This is DEPUTY RILEY,
better known as DEWEY.  He's a big guy, 20's, handsome in a
scrubbed-clean boyish way.


        Sidney Prescott.

Sheriff Burke gestures to bring her in.  PRINCIPAL HIMBRY, 50's,
an old codger of a man wearing a sour face speaks up.


        Sidney Prescott. She was daughter of...


        We all know Sidney, Mr. Himbry.


        How she doin'?


        She's adjusted well. Maintains an "A"
        average. You never know she...

Himbry stops short, seeing Sidney in the doorway.  He rises and
seats her.


        Hi Sidney.


        Sheriff Burke. Dewey.

Dewey shakes his head seriously.


        It's Deputy Riley today, Sid.


        How is everything?


        Good.


        And your Dad? How's he doing?


        We're fine. Thanks.


        We'll be brief, Sidney. The police have a
        few questions they'd like to ask you...

Sidney eyes them all nervously.



Students sit at outdoor tables eating lunch.  Crowded at one table
is the "gang".  This consists of Sidney, Billy and Tatum.

Next to Tatum, sits her boyfriend STUART, with his arm draped
across her back.  He's a Billy wannabe.  Almost the jock, almost
handsome, almost cool.  He tries way to hard.

Across the table is the fifth wheel, RANDY.  A tall and gangly kid
with no such Billy-like aspirations.  A witty jokester who
elevates geek to coolness.


        Hunt? Why would they ask if you like
        to hunt?


        I don't know, they just did.


        Because their bodies were gutted.

Sidney flinches.


        Thanks Randy.


        They didn't ask me if I like to hunt.


        Because there's no way a girl could have
        killed them.


        That is so sexist. The killer could
        easily be female-BASIC INSTINCT.


        That was an ice pick-not exactly the
        same.


        Yeah, Casey and Steve were completely
        hollowed out. Takes a man to do
        something like that.


        Or a man's mentality.


            
        How do you gut someone?

All eyes turn to Sidney.  A serious silence.  And then:


        You take a knife and slit from the groin
        to the sternum.

Sidney shivers down to her soul.  The whole table rolls their eyes
at Stu.


        What? She asked.


        It's called tact, you fuckrag.


        Sorry.


        Remember in JAWS when they caught the
        wrong shark at first and Richard Dreyfuss
        cut it open to look foe body parts and all
        they found was a licence plate and all this
        white milky goo.

Stu leans over and socks Randy in the arm.


        You heard Billy-shut the fuck up.


        Hey, Stu? Didn't you use to date Casey?

Stu's taken back, a little off guard.


        For about two seconds.


        Before she dumped him foe Steve.

Tatum turns to Stu, surprised.


        I thought you dumped her for me.


        I did. He's full of shit.


        And are the police aware you dated the
        victim?


            
        What are you saying? That I killed
        her or something?


        It would certainly improve your high
        school Q.


        Stu was with me last night.


        Oooooh...before or after he sliced and
        diced.


        Fuck you, nut case. Where were you last
        night?


        Working, thank you.


        I thought Blockbuster fired you.


        Twice.


        I didn't kill anybody.


        No one's saying you did.


        Besides-
            
        "Takes a man to do something like that."


        I'm gonna gut your ass in a second.


            
        Did you really put her liver in the
        mailbox? I hear they found her liver
        in the mailbox.


            
        Randy, you goon-fuck, I'm eating here.

Stu nibbles at Tatum's neck.


        Yeah, Randy, she's getting mad. I think
        you better liver alone.

Stu cracks up at his own joke.  The others just MOAN.  Sidney is
about to crawl out of her skin, trying hard to ignore it all.



A huge two story country home with a spacious lawn.

A yellow school bus stops in front of the house and Sidney steps
off.

The house looks big and lonely as Sidney moves up the walk to the
front door.



Sidney is on the telephone.


            
        You sure I can stay over?  My dad won't
        be back til Sunday.


            
        No prob. I'll pick you up after
        practice.


        Tell your mom I said thanks.


        Yeah, yeah...are you okay?


        Uh-huh, it's just...you know, the police
        and reporters...it brings it all back.


        I'll be there by seven. I promise


        Thanks, Tatum.


        Later.

Sidney hangs up.  She takes a seat at her computer and boots it
up.  She sits in front of it staring at the blue screen...her own
reflection staring back.



Sidney comes down the stairs, her arms carrying a change of
clothes, toothbrush, make-up...

She opens the hall closet and pulls a small overnight bag from the
top shelf.  Moving into the living room she loads it up, plopping
down on the sofa, hitting the TV remote.



A news reporter fades in.


            
        The entire nation was shocked today by
        the teen murders in North Carolina...

Sidney switches channels.


        The State Bureau of Investigation has
        joined forces with local authorities to
        help catch what the Governor has called
        the most heinous...

The channel switches again.  Gale weathers appears, standing in
front of the school.  Her white teeth gleaming.


        This is not the first time the small town
        of Bayboro has endured such tragedy. Only
        a year ago, Maureen Prescott, wife and
        mother, was found raped and murdered...

An old black and white snapshot fills the screen-a woman,
beautiful and familiar.



eyes frozen, mesmerized by the image.  Suddenly she CLICKS the TV
off.  Her eyes go to the clock on the end table.  5:45 PM.  Her
eyes then move to the framed photo next to it...the same black and
white photo stares at her...a healthy, vibrant woman.  An older
version of Sidney.

Sidney curls up on the sofa closing her eyes tight...



The clock on the end table reads 7:15 PM.  Sidney is fast asleep
on the couch.  The phone RINGS.  Sidney leaps up grabbing the
portable phone.


            
        Practice ran late. I'm on my way.


            
        It's past seven.


        Don't worry. Casey and Steve didn't bite
        it til way after ten.


        I'm not worried.


        Good, 'cause I wanna swing by BLOCKBUSTER
        and get us a video. I was thinkin' Tom Cruise in
        ALL THE RIGHT MOVES. You know, if you
        pause it just right you can see his penis.


        Whatever. Just hurry.


        Bye.

She hangs up the phone.  It immediately RINGS again.


            
        Tatum?


            
        Hello, Sidney.




        Hi. Who is this?


        You tell me.

Sidney thinks, trying to place his voice.  It sounds a little
distorted.


        I have no idea.


        Scary night, isn't it? With the murders
        and all, it's like right out of a horror
        movie or something.


        Aha, Randy, you gave yourself away. Are
        you calling from work? Tatum's on her
        way over.


        Do you like scary movies, Sidney?


        I like that thing you're doing with your
        voice, Randy. It's sexy.


        What's your favorite scary movie?


        Don't start. You know I don't watch that
        shit.


        And why is that?


            
        Because they're all the same. It's
        always some stupid killer stalking some
        big breasted girl-who can't act-who
        always runs up the stairs when she should
        be going out the front door. They're
        ridiculous.

A brief silence.


        Are you alone in the house?


        That is so unoriginal. You disappoint me,
        Randy.


        Maybe that's because I'm not Randy.


        So who are you?


        The question is not who am I. The
        question is where am I?


        So where are you?


        Your front porch.

This gives her pause.  She moves to the window and pulls aside the
drapes.


        Why would you call me from my
        front porch?


        That's the original part.

ANGLE THROUGH WINDOW.  She can't quite see all of the porch.


        Oh yeah? Well I call your bluff.

Sidney goes to the front door.  She unlocks the bolt, unsnags the
chain, and pulls the door open...revealing the front porch...



She steps out onto it, phone still in hand.  A single light shines
overhead illuminating the porch, but little beyond.  Darkness is
all around.


        So where are you?


        Right here.

Sidney peers out into the darkness past thick shrubs that grow on
either side of the porch.


        Can you see me right now?


        Uh-huh.


        What am I doing?

She sticks her finger up her nose, pretending to pick.  Silence.
No answer.


        Good try, Randy. Tell Tatum to hurry.
        Bye now.


        If you hang up, you'll die just like your
        mother.

Sidney stops dead in her tracks, speechless.


            
        Do you want to die, Sidney? Your mother
        didn't.

His seriousness unnerves her.  Sid flies off the handle.




She hangs up on him.  Moves back inside the house.  Locks, chains,
and bolts the door when...



rushing her, ramming into her side..the phone flies..the FIGURE is
on top of her as she goes down...SCREAMING...

She looks up to see the FIGURE, darkly dressed with a pale,
distorted face, white and ghostly...a mask.

Her instincts surface and she kicks up with her foot making the
contact with his leg...he topples over...coming right at her, his
hand finding her neck.  Suddenly, along, silver blade appears
above her.

Sidney pulls, jerks, twists...finally she lifts her torso forward
knocking the FIGURE off her...sending him reeling into the living
room.  Wasting no time, Sidney leaps to her feet.

She moves to the front door, unlocks it...pulls it open...it
catches on the chain.  Shit!  She pushes it closed again looking
behind her..the FIGURE has risen, knife in hand.
Sidney pulls on the chain and then-inexplicably turns and...

RUNS UP THE STAIRS.  The FIGURE right behind her.



The FIGURE leaps at Sidney taking hold of her foot, she grabs
madly at the wall...her hands grasp a framed painting-a quiet
country home, subdued colors, done in oils-she rips it from the
wall swinging it behind her...

It catches the FIGURE head on, smashing against his skull, sending
him backwards, tumbling down the stairs.  Sidney races to her
bedroom...



She locks the door shut, the pulls her closet door open, placing
the edge right at the door knob just as...



ramming it, it rips open, but the closet door catches it in a
crazy vice-like hold.

Sidney grabs the desk phone.  It's dead...off the hook downstairs.

The figure rushes the door several times..the frame splinters..but
won't give.

Sidney is at her computer, she punches at the keypad madly.







The knife slashes through the crack in the door wildly.







Sidney presses SEND when it occurs to her-all is quiet.  The
FIGURE is gone.  A fearful silence.  She looks around...the only
sound her own rapid, terrified BREATHING.



        "Stay calm.  Police enroute."

Suddenly a NOISE at the window...Sidney looks up to see...



her boyfriend, staring at her, surprised.


        Oh Billy...Please...God...


        I heard screaming. The door was locked.
        Are you okay...


        He's here. He's trying to kill me...

Billy pulls himself through the window.  As he does, a small black
object falls from his dark jeans.  It hits the floor as Sidney
eyes it...a sleek, compact cellular phone.

Sidney stops in her tracks.  Their eyes meet...an eternity.  A
SIREN is heard in the distance.  Sidney bolts...


        Hey...wait...what's goin..

Billy reaches for her.  Sidney unblocks the bedroom door and tears
out of the room.



Sidney nearly falls down the stairs...



She rips the chain off the door, pulls it open, coming face to
face with a white, ghostly mask.
A massive SCREAM erupts from her gut as...



to find Dewey-Deputy Riley, holding it.  Red lights flash, sirens
BLAST vas car after car surrounds the house.

Sidney falls into the safety of Dewey's arms.



The yard is a whirlwind of activity.  An ambulance, squad cars,
cops everywhere...



as it SMASHES against the hood of a police car.  His hands are
being cuffed, his rights being read.


            
        I didn't do anything! Sid...where's Sid?
        Ask her, she'll tell ya...

Dewey holds a car door open as Sheriff Burke steps out.


        We got him, Sheriff. Billy Loomis.


        Hank Loomis' kid? Aw..Jesus...


        He's her boyfriend.

They approach Billy as he's being placed in a squad car.


        Sheriff...I didn't do it...please, call
        my Dad..please...

The squad car disappears with Billy as another car comes to a stop
in front of the house.  Tatum gets out, freaked beyond belief.

Back to the Sheriff and Dewey as they storm across the yard.


        I was first to respond.


        What were you doing out here?


        Drive by patrol.


        How is she?


        She's tough.


        Have to be. The shit she's gone through.

Across the yard sits Sidney, in the back of an ambulance as
PARAMEDICS check her out.

Sheriff Burke and Riley approach.


        We're seeing a lot of you today.

She tries to smile but fails.


        You gonna be able to come down to the
        station and talk to us a bit?


        ..yeah...

TATUM appears, barreling past an OFFICER.


        What happened? Oh God...

Tatum rushes to her, grabbing hold of her.


            
        What are you doing here?


        Oh, God, Sid, I'm sorry I was late.


        You can't be here, Tatum. This is an
        official crime scene.


        It's okay. She was supposed to pick me
        up.


        Her dad's out of town. She's staying
        with us.


        Does mom know?


        Yes, you doofus.

Two news vans come driving up the street.


        The vultures are coming. Let's get you
        out of here.



A big, white news van comes to a stop in front of the house.  The
side door slides open and Gale Weathers hops out just in time to
see Sidney being escorted to a squad car.


        I'll be damned.

Jumping from the driver's seat is KENNY, Gale's cameraman and
flunky.  An earnest young chap on the chubby side.


        What? What?


        Jesus! The camera-hurry!

But it's too late.  Sidney is as good as gone.  Gale sees Tatum
moving quickly to her car.


        Excuse me?

Tatum looks up to see Gale Weathers rushing her.


        Was that Sidney Prescott they took away?


        I don't know.

Tatum hops in her car, ignoring her.


        What happened to her?


        I'm not talking to you.

Tatum's car peels out as Kenny comes running up with his camera.


        Where'd she go?

Gale spins around, flashing her pearly whites.


        Look, Kenny, I know you're about fifty
        pounds overweight but when I say hurry
        please interpret that as...MOVE YOUR


Gale moves back to the van leaving Kenny miffed.



A small town station.  The bull pen is a little square room with
four desks and tonight--it's hopping.  Cops everywhere.



Sidney sits at a desk drinking a cup of water.  She wears the
Sheriff's jacket over her shoulders.  Dewey approaches.


        Did you reach my Dad?


        You're sure it was the Hilton?


        At the airport.


        He's not registered. Could he have gone
        to another hotel?


        I don't know. I guess.


        We'll find him, Sid. Don't worry.

Sidney stares blankly, numb.



Billy sits opposite Sheriff Burke.  Next to Billy, sits his
father, HANK LOOMIS, an older version of Billy.


        What are you doing with a cellular
        telephone, son?


        It's my phone. He was just playing
        around with it.


        You got some ideas of playing around, boy.


        I didn't call anyone with it. I just
        took it for fun.


        Everybody's got one now. Why don't you
        check the phone bill for chrissakes.
        Call my carrier--AirFone Comp. They'll
        have records of every number dialed.


        Thank you, Hank. We're on it. What were
        you doing out at Sidney's tonight?


        I just wanted to see her, that's all.


        You rode your bike out there?


        Yes, sir.


        And last night? Sidney said you crawled
        through her window last night too?


            
        You were out last night?


        I watched TV for awhile but the I felt
        like going for a bike ride.


        Did you ride past Casey Becker's house?


        No, I didn't. I didn't kill anyone,
        Sheriff.


        We're gonna have to keep you, Billy. The
        governor's got SBI, FBI, and god knows
        who else on their way down here.

Billy fights tears.


        This is crazy. I didn't do it.

Sheriff Burke eyes him up and down, very carefully.



Tatum has joined Sidney.  The sheriff's door opens and Billy is
led out by a coupla UNIFORMS.  Burke and Dewey appear in the door
watching Tatum comfort Sidney.




        That ghost mask is sold at both Kroger's
        and WalMart. Neither of which keep
        purchase records.


        What about the cellular phone bill?


        They're pulling Loomis' account. But
        it'll be morning before we see something.
        You think he did it?


        Twenty years ago I woulda said not a
        chance. But these kids today...damn if I
        know.


            
        Hey...Dewey. Can we go now?


        Hold up a sec...


        She staying with you?


        We haven't located her Dad yet.


            
        Goddammit, Dewey!

Dewey turns to her, his face red.


        What did Mama tell you? When I wear this
        badge you treat me like a man of the law.


        I'm sorry, Deputy Dewey-boy but we're
        ready to go.


        Use the back way. Avoid the circus.



The door opens and Sidney, Tatum, Dewey, and a coupla OFFICERS
exit avoiding the horde of REPORTERS that can be seen around the
corner waiting anxiously at the front entrance.


        I'll get the car. Wait here.

Dewey takes off.  From the darkness of the alley, Gale Weathers
appears with Kenny and his camera.  They've been waiting.


        Hello Sidney.

Sidney spins around to see Gale, standing, smiling at her.
Sidney's body tightens and her face goes taut.


        Some night. Are you alright?

Their eyes meet in cold familiar stare.  Sidney says nothing.
She's visibly shaking.


        What happened?


        She's not answering any questions. Just
        leave us alone, okay?


        It's okay, Tatum. She's just doing her
        job. Right, GALE?


        Yes, that's right.

Dewey, in a squad car, turns into the alley and pulls up.  The
other news people have wisened up.  They begin to flock the alley.


        How's the book?


        It'll be out later this year.

Sidney tries to contain herself..squeezing a clenched fist.


        I'll look for it.


        I'll send you a copy.

In a blurred, unexpected instant, Sidney brings her fist forward,
SMASHING it hard into Gale Weathers's face.  The impact sends Gale
reeling backwards, knocking into Kenny as they both tumble to the
pavement.

ON SIDNEY...breathing deep, a sense of satisfaction on her face.



A spacious bedroom.  Typical.  Tatum and Sidney lay on the bed.
They both wear night shirts.


        God, I loved it. "I'll send you a copy."
        BAM! Bitch went down. "I'll send you a
        copy." BAM! Sid--SuperBitch!

Dewey appears in the doorway holding a bag of ice.


        I thought you might want some ice for
        that right hook.

Sidney sits up, takes the ice, and puts it on her hand.


        I'll be right next door. Try to get some
        sleep.

Dewey moves back out the door.


        Any word on my Dad?


            
        Not yet, but we're looking. If you need
        anything...


        Yeah, yeah, yeah...

Dewey smiles, pulling the door closed on his way out.  Sidney lies
back down.


        Just another sleepover at the Riley's.


        Just like old times, ain't it?


        No, nothing's like it used to be.

Sidney rolls over at her side, away from Tatum.

A telephone RINGS somewhere in the house.


        Do you really think Billy did it?


        He was there, Tatum.


        I knew this guy was too perfect. He was
        destined to have a flaw.

A KNOCK at the door.  It opens and a friendly, graying woman pops
in.  This is MAMA RILEY.  She wears a comforting smile.


        Telephone, dear.


        Who is it?


        It's for Sid


        My Dad?

Mama Riley shakes her head sadly.


        Take a message.


        It's alright. I'll get it.

Sidney takes off out the door.  Mama Riley motions to Tatum.


            
        How is she?

Tatum shrugs.



Sidney grabs the phone at the end of the hall.


        Hello?


            
        Hello Sidney.

IT'S HIM.  The CAMERA does a Hitchcock as Sidney's entire body
goes weak..his VOICE moving through her..invading her.  She CRIES





Mama Riley turns in the doorway.  Tatum comes bolting out of the
bedroom.


            
        Poor Billy-boyfriend. An innocent guy
        doesn't stand a chance with you.





        Looks like you fingered the wrong
        guy...again.


        Who are you?


        Hang up, Sid.


        Don't worry. You'll find out soon
        enough. I promise.

Mama Riley BEATS on a closed bedroom door.


        Dewey! Dewey!


        This is gonna be fun, Sidney. Just like
        old times.



Dewey flies out of his room wearing only his boxers...holding his
gun.


        What? What?

The phone goes dead.  Sidney stands frozen.



The morning sun shines high over Bayboro Townsquare.  Cars come to
life, townsfolk stir as the picture postcard community awakens
from a restless sleep.



Sidney and Tatum sit at the kitchen table, dressed and ready for
school as Mama Riley serves up breakfast.  A small television sits
on the counter BLARING.

Dewey, in uniform, stands near the door, talking on the phone.


        I think you girls really should stay home
        today.


        Your objection is duly noted.


        I'd rather be around a lot of people,
        Mama Riley.

From the TV, Sidney hears her name, "SIDNEY PRESCOTT..."  All eyes
go to the television.


            
        ..who escaped a vicious attack last night
        was the daughter of Maureen Prescott who
        was brutally killed last year when
        convicted murderer Cotton Weary...

INSERT of COTTON WEARY, in prison fatigues.  A once handsome man,
now haggard and worn.


            
        ..broke into their home and savagely
        raped and tortured the deceased. Cotton
        Weary is currently awaiting appeal for
        the death sentence handed down after the
        young Sidney testified against him. She
        was the key witness in the state's
        prosecution...


        It's never gonna stop. Is it?

Dewey is off the phone.


        Billy was released. His cellular bill
        was clean. He didn't make those calls.


        Somebody called me, Dewey. I'm not
        making it up.


        I know. We're checking every cellular
        account in the county. Any calls made to
        you or Casey Becker are being cross-
        referenced. It's gonna take time but
        we'll find him.


        And my Dad? Any word on him?

Riley shakes his head "no".



Once again, REPORTERS line the street attacking students as they
make their way to school, asking questions, hungry for that
teenage insight.

Dewey's patrol jeep cruises by.  Sidney watches from the
passenger's window.



Dewey pulls up in front of the school.  Tatum hops out while Sid
lingers, suddenly unsure.  Dewey takes notice.


        Hey, it's school. You'll be safe here.

Sidney forces herself out of the jeep as a microphone is shoved in
her face...


        How does it feel to almost be brutally
        murdered?

Dewey leaps from the car, intercepting the reporter.


        Leave the girl alone, will ya? She wants
        to go to school.

Sidney eyes the newsvan that's pulled up behind her.  The side
door slides open and Gale Weathers steps out.


        Come on, Sid.


        Just a sec...I need to talk to someone.

She heads over to Gale.



Sidney, puts her head down, hiding her face...avoiding other
reporters as she makes her way to...

Gale who sits in the open door, checking her face in a mirror.
Makeup tries hard to hide Sid's handwork-a swollen black and blue
right cheek.

Gale spots Sidney immediately and leaps to her feet.


        Stop right there.

Sidney throws her hands up in surrender.


        I'm not here to fight.


        Just stay back.


        I want to talk to you.


            
        Kenny. Camera. Now.

Kenny's head darts out from the van.


        Off the record. No cameras.


        Forget it.

Sidney contains herself.


        Please. You owe me.


        I owe you shit.

Gale moves inside the van.  But Sidney is relentless.


        You owe my mother.


        Your mother's murder was last year's
        hottest court case. Somebody was gonna
        write a book about it.


        And it had to be you with all your lies
        and bullshit theories.


        What is your problem? You got what you
        wanted. Cotton Weary is in jail.
        They're gonna gas him. A book is not
        gonna change that.


        Do you still think he's innocent?

Gale's interest is peaked.  She eyes Sidney suspiciously.


        He was convicted in a court of law. Your
        testimony put him away. It doesn't
        matter what I think.


        During the trial, you did all those
        stories about me. You called me a liar.


        I think you falsely identified him. Yes.


        Have you talked to Cotton?


        Many times.


        Has his story changed?


        Not one word. He admits to having sex
        with your mother but that's all.


        He's lying. She wouldn't have touched
        him. He raped her, then butchered her.
        Her blood was all over his coat.


        He was drunk that night. He left his
        coat at your house, after your mother
        seduced him...


        I saw him leaving wearing it.


        But couldn't it have been someone else
        you saw wearing that coat? The same
        person who planted it in Cotton's car,
        framing him? The same person who
        really killed your mother?

A long beat.  Sidney considers this for the millionth time.


        No, Cotton murdered my mother.

But there's doubt in her voice.  Gale's face lights up.


        You're not so sure anymore, are you?

Sidney clams up.


        No, it was Cotton.

Tatum comes waltzing up.


            
        Nice welt.

Gale ignores her, zeroing in on Sidney, half realizing.


        The killer is still on the loose, isn't
        he? These murders are related.


        Yo--let's rock.

Sidney starts to fidget.


        I'm sorry I mangled your face.

She take off with Tatum.  Gale calls after her.


        Wait, Sidney, don't go...

But Sidney and Tatum have already disappeared in the crowd of
students moving across campus.

Gale looks to Kenny.


        Jesus Christ! An innocent man on death
        row. A killer still on the loose.
        Kenny, tell me I'm dreaming.


        You want to go live?

Gale's mind races with possibilities.


        No, not so fast. We have nothing
        concrete.


        When did that ever stop you? You can't
        sit on this. This is huge.


        If I'm gonna blow this up-I need hard
        proof.


        But it's so much easier when we make it
        up.


        Not this time. I owe Cotton that much.
        Hell, even I thought that man was guilty.



Tatum and Sidney make their way across campus.


        Just relax. You're at school now. No
        one can get you here.


        But if it wasn't Billy it could be
        anybody. He could be here at school
        right now.

They move up the walk as a FIGURE falls in step behind them,
sporting a WHITE GHOST MASK.


        Serial killers are smart by definition.
        They minimize their risk. They plan and
        pre-calculate everything. Showing up
        here would be the most lame-brain
        move he could make.


        He promised me he'd be back.

As easy as the figure appeared, it disappears-falling out of site,
unseen by either of them.


        I wouldn't put too much stock in a
        psycho's promise.

They move up the front steps toward the main doors of the school
as the GHOST MASKED FIGURE reappears...standing at the top of the
steps...Sidney sees it first, stopping dead in her tracks.

She steps back, spinning around to find...

A GHOST FACE behind her as well, both of them approaching, closing
in on her.  Sidney starts to SCREAM when the two ghosts bust up
LAUGHING, tearing off across campus.



In front of the school we catch up a REPORTER doing a live remote.
He holds a mask in his hand.


        This morning several students, in what
        appears to be a prank, have been spotted
        wearing masks. School officials have yet
        to comment but this is the same type of
        mask worn by the killer...



Just before the bell.  The hallway is congested with students
heading to class.  Tatum is at her locker with Sidney.


        This is a mistake. I shouldn't be here.


        I want you to meet me here right after
        class, okay?

Billy appears in the crowd, with Stu tagging behind.  Tatum spots
him first.


        Shit, what is he doing here?


        I bet he's pissed.


        Just ignore him. You had good reason to
        think what you did.

Billy and Stu approach.  Billy's face is solemn.


        Hi, Sid. Can we talk a sec?

Sidney says nothing.  She can barely look at him.  Tatum
intervenes.


        You know if I were accused of carving up
        two people, I'd take the opportunity to
        skip school.


        Hey, go easy, Tatum. He didn't do it.


        Talk to me, Sid.

Suddenly, a SCREAM erupts.  All eyes go to a GHOST MASKED STUDENT
running down the hall, screaming wildly, running amuck.


        Why are they doing this?


        Are you kidding? This is like Christmas.

Billy punches Stu in the side.


        Owwww...


        You open your mouth and stupidity pours
        out.


        Sorry.

Sidney, clearly upset, takes off down the hall.  Billy races off
after her.


            
        Stay away from her, Billy.

Tatum SLAMS her locker door shut as the bell RINGS.



With first period underway, the halls have cleared.  One or two
struggling students can be seen rushing to class.

Sidney moves quickly down the hall, rounding a corner, running
smack into...



They collide hard catching Sidney off guard, scaring the life out
of her.  She falls backwards, but Billy catches her fall.


        Jesus, SHIT!


        Hey, hey, it's just me.

Sidney pulls away from him quickly.  Billy feels the slight.


        What? You don't still think it's me?

Sidney catches her breath.


        No...I don't...it's just...Oh God, Billy,
        someone was there, someone tried to
        kill me.


        The police say I scared him off. It
        wasn't me, Sid.


        I know. He called again last night at
        Tatum's house.


        See, it couldn't have been me. I was in
        jail, remember?


        I'm so sorry...please understand.


        Understand what? That I got a girlfriend
        who would rather accuse me of being a
        psychopathic killer than touch me.


        You know that's not true.


        Then what is it? Is there somebody else?


        No...


        Is it the sex thing? Am I being too
        pushy?


        No, it's me, Billy. I need time. I'm
        still adjusting to my mom.


        It's been a year since she died.


            
        Tomorrow. One year tomorrow.


        When are you gonna let that go, Sid?
        When my mom left my dad--I just accepted
        it. This is the way it is. She's not coming
        back.


            
        Your parents split up. It's not the same
        thing. Your mom left town, she's not in
        a coffin somewhere.


        You have to move on, Sid.

Sidney starts to walk away but turns back, angry.


        I'm glad to know you're coping so well
        with life, Billy. But some of us aren't so
        perfect. Some of us are just trying to
        hold on.

Sidney disappears through a door marked GIRL'S BATHROOM, leaving
Billy alone in the hallway.  He SMACKS his forehead, pissed at
himself.



Large and spacious.  Closed bathroom stalls line one wall facing a
row of sinks and a huge mirror.  Sidney enters as TWO GIRLS tinkle
and talk--each from their respective stalls.


        She was never attacked. I think she made
        it all up.


        Why would she lie about it?


        For attention. The girl has some serious
        issues.

Sidney listens intently.

A toilet FLUSHES.  Sidney quickly jumps in a stall, hiding, just
as GIRL #1 appears from a stall.  She looks like that voice--a
snotty little twit.


        What if she did it? What if Sidney
        killed Casey and Steve?


        And why would she do that?


        Maybe she was hot for Steve and killed
        them both in a jealous rage.

Another toilet FLUSHES.


        Why would Sidney want to be with Steve?
        She has her own bubble-butt boyfriend Billy.


        Maybe she's a slut just like her mom.

INSIDE THE STALL Sidney listens.  Her face weakening.


        You're evil.


        Please, it's common knowledge. Her
        mother was a trollop.

GIRL #2 appears from her stall--another twit.  They both stand in
front of the mirror adjusting two snotty faces.


        Cut some slack. She watched her mom get
        butchered.


        And it fucked her up royally. Think
        about it. It makes perfect sense. Her
        mom's death leaves her distraught and
        hostile at a cruel and inhumane world,
        she's disillusioned, where's God, etc.
        Completely suicidal. And one day she
        snaps. She wants to kill herself but
        realizes teen suicide is out this year.
        And homicide is a much healthier
        therapeutic expression.

From the stall, Sidney listens, her heart pounding, jaw quivering.


        Where do you get this shit?


        Ricki Lake.

The two girls exit.  Sidney moves out of the stall, catching her
reflection in the mirror.


        Pathetic.

Water DRIPS somewhere from a leaky pipe as wind WHISTLES in from
the cracked transom above the bathroom door.  It sound almost like
a whisper,   "Siddneey..."

Sidney spins around.  What the...  She checks out the bathroom.
The doors to the stalls are all closed.  She bends down and scans
beneath them, looking for feet.  No one.  Nothing.

Sidney turns back to the mirror.  Suddenly...


            
        Siddneey...

Unmistakable this time.  The VOICE strikes Sidney like a nail
through the eye.  It comes from one of the stalls.  She stands
thunderstruck, eyeing the stalls thru the mirror.


        Is someone there?

A long, morose silence.  And then:


            
        It's me, Sidney.

Sidney spins around.  Fuck no!  HE'S HERE.  Terror floods her
face.  She eyes the exit door, then the row of stalls she must
pass to get to it.

She checks under the stalls again.  Nothing...where the fuck is
he?  She takes a step forward when...

TWO FEET step down from a toilet onto the floor in the last stall.
Sidney's face draws tight as the stall door begins to CREAK open.
She bolts forward, making a break for it...but slips on the wet
floor...her feet flying out from under...

Sidney reaches out...grabs hold of a sink...saves herself from
falling...she glimpses a GHOST MASK in the mirror coming for her.
A hand grabs her shoulder as she SLAMS her body through the exit
door...narrowly escaping.



Sidney flies out of the bathroom door SCREAMING...burning up the
hallway, not looking back.  A TEACHER, hearing her SCREAM, peer
out from an open doorway...as Sidney sprints by him, not
stopping...running madly.



CLOSE on a red-faced Principal Himbry as he reads someone the riot
act.


I'm sickened. Your whole havoc-inducing,
thieving, whoring generation disgusts me.

The CAMERA SWINGS AROUND to reveal two GHOST MASKED STUDENTS
standing at attention.  Mr. Himbry rips the mask off of one of the
student's heads.


        Two students have been savagely murdered.
        And this is how we express our compassion
        and sensivity?

He rips the mask off the other student.


        We throw on a mask and dance around
        campus just hoping someone else gets
        butchered before we get bored again.
        You're both expelled.

The GHOSTS doth protest...


        Aw, come on, Mr. Himbry, it was just a
        joke.


        Yeah, that's not fair.

A deep rooted hostility has taken over Mr. Himbry's face.  Neither
student budges, scared to even breathe.


        No, it's not fair. Fairness would be to
        rip your insides out and hang you from
        a tree so you can be exposed for the
        desensitized, heartless little shits that
        you are.

Suddenly the door BURSTS open and Sidney appears, hysterical.


            
        He's here...I saw him...he's here...

Mr. Himbry rushes to her, arms outstretched.


        Easy child.

Sidney collapses in his arms.



Dewey's patrol jeep is parked in front of the school.  He stands
in the open driver's door talking on the radio.


            
        She's okay. Looks like some boys were
        teasing her. Himbry's shutting down the
        school though. I want you to take look
        around.


        Yes, sir, sheriff.

Dewey shuts the jeep door and heads for campus when Gale Weathers
appears, her fake face aglow.


        Hi! Gale Weathers. Field Correspondent,



        I know who you are, ma'am. How's the
        eye?


        Productive. So they're closing down the
        school?


        Well..uh...yes ma'am. For the time being.

Dewey heads for the school building. Gale scurries along side him
flirtatiously.


        And why is that? Has something happened?


        You're not supposed to be here, ma'am.


        I know, I should be in New York covering
        the Sharon Stone stalker but who knew?
        Please, call me Gale. You look awfully
        young to be a police officer.

Dewey's eyes wander down to Gale's long legs, the way her hips
move as she walks...he's clearly distracted.


        I'm twenty-five years old, ma'am.


        Twenty-five, huh? In a demographic study
        I proved to be most popular amongst
        males, 11-24. I just missed you. Of course,
        you don't look a day over twelve, except
        in the upper torso area. Does the force
        require that you work out?

Dewey looks away, blushing a bit.


        No, ma'am. Because of my boyish good
        looks, muscle mass has increased my
        acceptance as a serious police officer.

They approach the school's front entrance.  Suddenly, Mr. Himbry's
VOICE in amplified through intercoms across campus via the PA
system.  They stop to listen.


            
        "Your attention please. Due to the
        recent events that have occurred and
        until it comes to a resolve--effective
        immediately--all classes are suspended
        til further notice. The Bayboro Police
        Dept. has also asked me to announce a
        city wide curfew beginning at 6 o'clock
        PM. I repeat..."

Gale speaks over Mr. Himbry's voice.


        Boy, you people sure do make fuss over
        a serial killer.


        Serial killer is not really accurate,
        ma'am. The killer has yet to strike
        twice.


        Well, we can hope, can't we? We
        certainly don't have any leads. A ghost
        mask, a cellular phone--not much there.


        We're tracking the cellular phone bill.


        Really? You small town guys are good.
        And have you located Sidney's father?


        No, not yet.


        He's not a suspect, is he?


        We haven't ruled out that possibil...

Dewey, realizing he's said too much, clams up.


        If you'll excuse me, ma'am.


        Am I keeping you? I'm sorry.


        That's quite alright. If I may say so,
        ma'am, you're much prettier in person.

Dewey starts up the school's front steps as the bell RINGS.


        So you do watch the show?

He turns to her earnestly as STUDENTS come pouring out the front
doors.


        I just turned 25. I was 24 for a whole
        year.


        You are precious. Please, call me Gale.

She smiles deliciously, gives him a wink, then struts off as
Dewey, like a nervous little school boy watches her go.



School is clearing out.  The halls have begun to empty as Tatum
escorts Sidney down the hallway.


        It was just some sick fuck having a
        laugh.


        It was him, Tatum. I know it.

Tatum wants to believe her but...


        You are not to be alone again. Is that
        clear? If you pee--I pee.

Stu appears.


        Is this not cool or what? Hey, Sid,
        what happened?


        For once, Stu, drop it.


        Okay, but whatever you did--the entire
        student body thanks you.

Stu moves to Tatum and gives her a kiss.


        And to celebrate this impromptu fall
        break, I propose we have a party.
        Tonight, my house.


        Are you serious?


        My parents are out of town. It'll be
        like my hurricane bash last year.
        Nothing extreme. Just a few of us,
        hangin'.

Tatum warms to the idea.


        This could be good. What do you think,
        Sid?


        I don't know...


        Come on. Pathos has it's perks.

Sidney considers trying hard to be good spirited.


        Remember, there's safety in numbers.


            
        Yeah, okay...whatever.


        Cool. See you guys tonight. Bring food.

Stu speeds off, sliding down the empty hallway.



Mr. Himbry sits at his desk staring at the ghosts masks before
him.  He picks one of them up, snickering.


        Damn...

He stands and moves to the closet next to his office door.  He
pulls it open to reveal a mirror hooked inside the door.  He tries
the mask on, pulling it over his face, looking in the mirror
when...

A KNOCK AT THE DOOR stops him.  He rips the mask off his head,
turns to his office door and opens it to reveal...

AN EMPTY DOORWAY.  He pokes his head into the outer office area
and looks around.  But no one's there.


        Yes? Hello?

The place is empty.  A little suspicious he closes the door,
catching his reflection in the closet mirror.  He looks at the
mask in his hands.  Jesus, even he's jumpy.  Two seconds later...

ANOTHER KNOCK AT THE DOOR.  Himbry grabs the door quickly, this
time throwing it open.  Again no one's there.  He steps out into
the outer office determined to catch a prankster.



Completely empty.  Mr. Himbry moves through the outer office and
into the school corridor.  The overhead lights have been turned
off and the corridor is now dark and deserted.  He looks up and
down the hall.  Only a JANITOR is seen in the distance pushing a
broom.


        Little shits.

Mr. Himbry returns to his office.



Himbry reenters his office, moving to his desk, when he spots the
closet door NOW CLOSED SHUT.

This gives him a pause-he had left it open.  Hadn't he?  Suddenly,
he can't remember.  He shifts uneasy, reaching for the door knob,
pulling the door open to reveal...

AN EMPTY CLOSET.  He stands still a moment, suddenly realizing
someone could easily now be standing behind the open closet door.
Nervously, he pushes it shut to reveal...

NOTHING.  Himbry shakes away his jitters, realizing he's spooked
himself.  He continues to his desk, pushing his office door shut
when...

A GHOST MASKED FIGURE lunges from behind it...knife in hand.
Quick and easy.  Three quick jabs to the stomach and Himbry goes
down.  The GHOST MASKED FIGURE towering above him.



The late afternoon sun is quickly disappearing.

Tatum and Sidney rock on the front porch looking out into the
small town neighborhood.  Dewey's patrol jeep is parked in the
driveway.

Despite loud music, BLARING from an inside stereo, this is a quiet
moment.


        Maybe Cotton Weary is telling the truth.
        Maybe he was having an affair with your
        mom.


        So you think my mom was a slut too?


        I didn't say that, Sid. But you know
        there were rumors. Your dad was
        always out of town on business.
        Maybe your mom was a very unhappy
        woman.


        If they were having an affair how come
        that Cotton couldn't prove it in court?


        You can't prove a rumor. That's why it's
        a rumor.


        Created by that little tabloid twit Gale
        Weathers.


            
        It goes further back, Sid. There's been
        talk about other men.


        And you believe it?


        Well...you can only hear that Richard
        Gere-gerbil story so many times before
you have to start believing it.

A long silence as Sidney agonizes over all of this.  She stands up
and moves to the edge of the porch and stares out onto the
neighborhood.


        If I was wrong Cotton, then he's still
        out there.


        Don't go there, Sid. You're starting to
        sound like some Wes Carpenter flick.
        Don't freak yourself out--we've got a
        long night ahead of us.


        You're right. I'm cracking up. Ignore
        me.


        Come on, let's rock.

Sid follows Tatum inside the house never seeing the GHOST MASKED
FIGURE that stands across the street, under a tree.  His presence
so subtle and unobtrusive you'd have to see this movie a second
time to know he was there all along.



Stu is moving along main street when Billy comes barreling up next
to him.


        How'd you do?


        Piece of cake. She'll be there.


        Thanks, butt wart. You did good.


        So you gonna try and make up with Sid?


        Duh...that's quick.


        I was just asking. Why are you always at
        me?


        Because I'm trying to build your self-
        esteem. You're far too sensitive.


        Oh....

Billy thumbs Stu's forehead.


        You ready to party hard tonight?


        You know it.

They come to a building centrally located in the heart of Main
Street.  A huge, blue monstrosity that's bigger than the local
bank and post office combined. The sign in front reads




You typical Blockbuster--huge and crowded.  Randy, in his
Blockbuster get up, is busy reshelving returns when Stu appears--
knocking the videos out of his hand.


        Jesus, this place is packed.


            
        We had a run in the mass murder section.


        You coming tonight?


        Yeah, I'm off early--curfew you know.
            
        Now that's poor taste.


        What?

Randy refers to Billy who stands down the aisle talking to TWO
GIRLS.  


        If you were the only suspect in a
        senseless bloodbath would you be standing
        in the horror section?


        It was all a misunderstanding. He didn't
        do anything.


        You're such a little lap dog. He's got
        killer printed all over his forehead.


        The why'd the police let him go?


        Because, obviously they don't watch
        enough movies. This is standard horror
        movie stuff. PROM NIGHT revisited.

Randy moves down the aisle, reshelving videos.


        Why would he want to kill his own
        girlfriend?


        There's always some stupid bullshit
        reason to kill your girlfriend. That's
        the beauty of it all. Simplicity.
        Besides, if it's too complicated you lose
        your target audience.


        So what's his reason?


        Maybe Sidney wouldn't have sex with him.


        She's saving herself for you.


        Could be. Now that Billy's tried to
        mutilate her, you think Sid would go out
        with me?


        I think her father did it. How come they
        can't find his ass?


        Because he's probably dead. His body
        will come popping out in the last reel
        somewhere...eyes gauged. See, the police
        are always off track with this shit, if they'd
        watch PROM NIGHT they'd save time.
        There's formula to it. A very simple one.
        Everyone's always a suspect--the father,
        the principal, the town derelict...


        Which is you...


        So while they're off investigating a dead
        end, Billy, who's been written off as a
        suspect, is busy planning his next
        hunting expedition.


            
        How do we know you're not the killer?

Randy spins around to find Billy right behind him.  Busted.


        Uh...hi, Billy.


        Maybe your movie-freaked mind lost it's
        reality button?

Randy shrugs, laughing it off.


        You're absolutely right. I'm the first
        to admit it. If this were a scary movie,
        I'd be the prime suspect.


        And what would be your motive?


        It's 1995--motives are incidental.



Dewey's patrol jeep makes it's way down mainstreet.  It's almost
dark.  The street is close to deserted.



Dewey's behind the wheel having a heated conversation with Tatum
while Sid stares out the window.


        A party? Mom's gonna kill you. Then me.


        Don't be so self-righteous. It's just a
        little blow out--we'll be perfectly safe.

Sid stares out the window. CLOSED SIGNS fill the storefronts, a
few people rush to their car, in a hurry to beat curfew.


        God, look at this place, it's THE TOWN



        Hey, I saw that movie. True story, 'bout
        some killer in Texas.


        Hey, Sid. Just think if they make a
        movie about you. Who's gonna play you?


        Oh, god...

Dewey comes to a stop, parking the car in front of the police
station. He looks to Sid with a brotherly smile.


        I see you as a young Meg Ryan myself.


        Thanks, Dewey. But with my luck they'd
        cast Tori Spelling.



They pile out of the jeep.  Dewey heads for the station.


        I'll just be a few minutes. Don't go
        far.

The girls take off for the local supermarket that sits across the
street.


        Is Billy going to be there tonight?


        He better not be. I told Stu to keep his
        mouth shut. I think we can live without
        EVERYBODY'S ALL AMERICAN for
        one night.

They approach the grocery store.  Small and simple.  Sid and Tatum
grab a shopping cart from the bin and enter the store, pushing the
cart through two sliding glass doors.

A lone CHECKOUT LADY behind the counter, big and frumpy, looks up
from counting money.


        You girls gonna have to hurry it up.
        We're under curfew.


        Two minutes tops.

They make a bee-line for the junk food section just as the
automated doors slide shut behind them and a...

GHOST MASKED FIGURE appears, out of nowhere, standing just
outside, watching, quietly through the glass store windows.



Sheriff Burke's face heats up as Deputy Riley marches in,
hurriedly.


        Dewey! Where the hell you been, boy?


        Keeping my eye on Sidney.


        Listen up, Dewey, because it's bad. Real
        bad. Aircomp just faxed us. The calls
        were listed to Neil Prescott--Sidney's
        father. He made the calls with his cellular
        phone. It's confirmed.


        Couldn't his cellular number have been
        cloned?


        There's more. Guess what tomorrow is?
        The anniversary of his wife's death. It all
        fits. He's our man.


        Have you contacted the bureau?


        They believe he's out of state by now.
        We'll keep roadblocks and curfew in
        effect through the night. If he's not
        picked up by morning--we'll do a house
        to house.


        You think he could still be in town?


        He'd have to be crazy. Where's Sidney?


        She's with my sister. Should I bring her
        in?


        Hold off for now. Just stay close to
        her.


        She'll be with her friends over at Stu
        Maker's tonight.


        Watch her. Don't let on--just keep your
        eyes out.


        Yes, sir.



Sidney and Tatum push a basket through the junk food section.  The
store is completely empty.  The girls gab freely.


        Billy's right. Whenever he touches me, I
        just can't relax.


        You have a few intimacy issues as a
        result of your mother's untimely death.
        It's no big deal. You'll thaw out.


        But he's been so patient with me, Tatum.
        You know, with all the sex stuff. How
        many guys would put up with a girlfriend
        who's sexually anorexic?


        Billy and his penis don't deserve you.

Sidney grabs some chips and salsa from the shelf.  Down the aisle,
through the storefront window the GHOST MASKED FIGURE still stands
watching their every move.



Sid pushes the cart out of the glass door with Tatum riding it.
The GHOST MASKED FIGURE is nowhere to be found.


        What do you think about when you're
        having sex?


        With Stu, there's little time to stop and
        reflect. But sometimes before, to relax
        and get in the mood, I think about Grant
        Goodeve.

Sid pushes the cart and Tatum across the street.


        Who?


        Grant Goodeve--the oldest brother on
        EIGHT IS ENOUGH. Remember that show? He
        was the one who lived off alone. He would come
        around every now and then with his guitar and
        sing "Eight is enough to fill our lives with love..."
        He had all these brain dead sisters and that idiot
        brother from CHARLES IN CHARGE. God, I
        was in love with Grant, he was so hot. The show
        came on every day after school right during my
        puberty years. Grant Goodeve was very instrumental
        in my maturing as a woman.


        How does that get you in the mood with
        Stu?


        During foreplay, I sing the theme song to
        myself. "Eight is enough to fill our lives
        with love..." It's a real turn on.


        No way.


        Grant wrote the song himself. I'm
        convinced the lyrics had a secret
        meaning, "Eight is enough..."

Sid pushes the cart up to Dewey's jeep.  Tatum hops off.


        What secret meaning? Like a Satanical
        thing?


        Watch the show, Sid. His basket is
        bigger than the one you're pushing.





        Oh, Sidney. WHAT? A guy can talk tits
        til he's dead but the minute you mention
        an eight inch weenie. Watch out.

Sidney stops just short of a laugh.  Tatum pulls the back jeep
door, loading the groceries in.  Behind her, the GHOST MASKED
FIGURE appears, just out of their sight, behind the jeep's open
back door.


        There's that sense of humor. I knew it
        still existed. Ohh, Sid, let's have some
        fun tonight.


        Deal.

Sidney moves to the back door and closes it shut, when from
behind...

DEWEY stands.  Sid jumps, startled.


        You girls ready.


        Yeah.


        Looks like I'm your personal bodyguard
        tonight, Sid.


        No, Dewey. You'll ruin the whole night.


        Sorry, police orders. I'll stay out of the
        way, I promise.


        Shit.

Tatum kicks the shopping cart out of the way, blindly.  It rolls
down the road by itself, gaining speed on a decline running smack
into the GHOST MASKED FIGURE who stops the cart cold with one
hand.



Dewey's jeep makes it's way down a long, winding road.  Headlights
illuminate the thick woods that line each side.  Following behind
them at a discreet distance is a huge white newsvan.

Dewey comes to the end of the road.  It dead ends at...

STU'S HOUSE which sits alone in a clearing, big and ominous with
no neighbors in sight.  A huge old home just ripe for a night of
fun and...terror.

From the looks of things the party has already started.  Music is
BLARING. A few KIDS hang on the porch.



A big room with KIDS sprinkled throughout-smoking, drinking,
cutting up.  A stereo BLASTS music while the TV airs around the
clock killer coverage.

Tatum and Sid enter with groceries.  Various FRIENDS greet them.


        Caterer's here.

The girls carry bags through a hallway that opens up onto an
enormous kitchen.  Stu and some GUYS are leaning over the sink
drinking beer through a funnel.


        That's mature.


        Where you guys been? We had to start
        without you.



The newsvan pulls up and parks unobtrusively on the side of the
road a few feet down from the front yard.



Kenny and Gale move around inside the van.  Kenny hovers over a
control panel complete with video monitors.


        What's the plan?


        Prep the compact, we'll hide it in a
        window and tape all of tonight's
        festivities.

Kenny picks up a compact video camera the size of his fist.  He
checks its battery pack.


        The control board's glitched. You know
        we can't carry a live picture.


        What's the delay?


        About thirty seconds.


        As long as it records I don't give a
        shit. We're not doing a remote.

Gale slides open the side door and steps out into the darkness,
not seeing the FIGURE that stands behind her.  A hand grabs her
shoulder, Gale's heart stops as she spins around to find...

Dewey, smiling, extremely pleased to see her.


        Evening, ma'am.


        Deputy...good evening.


        What brings you out to these parts?


        You never know when or where a story will
        break.


        Not much story here. Just a bunch of
        kids cutting loose.


        Then what are you doing here?


        Keeping an eye on things. Checking the
        place out.


        Mind if I join you?

Dewey considers for a whole two seconds.


        Not at all.

Gale leans in the van, grabs the camera from  Kenny's hand, and
throws it in her bag.  She gives Kenny a wink.



CLOSE ON a microwave.  Popcorn POPS inside.  CAMERA WIDENS TO


Sid, Stu, and Tatum moving about the kitchen, preparing a junk
food feast.  Other TEENS pop in and out. Randy appears amongst
them.  He carries an armful of videos.


        I thought we'd make it a BLOCKBUSTER
        night.

He lets the videos splatter across the kitchen counter.  Stu and
Tatum dive in.


        I thought everything was checked out.


        I had 'em hid in the foreign section.

Sidney peruses the videos.



        --How come Jamie Lee Curtis is in all these
        movies?


        She's the Scream Queen.


        With that set of lungs--she should be.


            
        Tits--see.



The party is going strong.  Ten maybe fifteen people stand, sit,
lean.  Some crowd around the floor in front of the television.
Randy is taking a vote.


        How many EVIL DEAD'S?
            
        How many HELLRAISER'S?

Hands go up.  BICKERING AD-LIB, etc.

The doorbell RINGS.  Stu goes for it.


        I got it. Tatum get me a beer. They're
        in the fridge in the garage.


        What am I? The beer wench?


            
        Hey, guess who's here? It's that chick
        from INSIDE STORY?

They look up the hallway to see Dewey and Gale standing in the
foyer.


        Shit, Dewey!

Everyone perks up, eyeing Gale.


        What is she doing here?


        She's with me. I just wanted to check on
        things.

The GUYS in the room are drooling over Gale.  Including Stu.


        So you did--now leave...and take your
        media muff with you.

Tatum takes off for the kitchen.

Gale has quickly become the focus of the party.  All eyes are on
her.


        I watch your show regularly.


        This must be big news to be on INSIDE



        Huge.


        Wanna interview us?


        We could be like two grief stricken
        students and we'll say really nice things
        about our good friends who were
        slaughtered senselessly.


        I can cry on cue.

Gale eyes the bookshelf above the television.


        Maybe later?

Suddenly, Gale starts to COUGH.


        Can I trouble you for some water?


        How 'bout a beer? Randy--get the lady a
        beer.


        You get it.

Gale slips the camera from her bag--hits the ON switch and holds
it behind her...waiting for the right moment.




        Have they found my father?


        Afraid not.


        Should I be worried?


        Not yet.



Tatum is alone in the kitchen.  She empties popcorn into a bowl,
then pulls open the refrigerator...looks quickly, then
remembers...

She moves through the adjoining laundry room to the...



The kitchen door opens and light floods the darkened garage.
Tatum stands in the doorway searching for a light switch.

She finds a button and hits it.  BRRRRMMM!  The electric garage
door starts to rise.  Wrong switch.  She hits it again and it
closes.

She finds another switch.  CLICK.  A small lightbulb overhead
comes on, barely lighting the large two car garage, leaving
pockets of shadows along the wall.

Tatum spots the refrigerator against a far wall and heads for it,
not seeing the kitchen door, quietly, slowly, closing behind her,
sealing her off from the rest of the house.

Tatum stumbles to the refrigerator and throws it open.  Its light
casts a glow across her face.



Tatum jumps, spinning around just in time to see a cat escape
through a large pet door that's built into the garage door.  She
smiles at her jumpiness.

Tatum loads up with as many beer as her hands will carry and heads
back to the kitchen.

At the kitchen door, she juggles the beer, reaching for the knob.
It's locked.




She KICKS it with her foot several times.


        Hey, Shitheads!

A moment.  No answer.




Tatum leans over and, with her elbow, hits the garage door button.
BRRRMM!  It begins to rise.

She moves towards the rising door, beer in hand.  Suddenly, CRR-
BRRRM!  The garage door RESETS, reversing direction, moving down,
closing.


        What the...

Tatum spins around to see..



Silhouetted in the dark, next to the kitchen door, his hand on the
switch.  Tatum at once GASPS, taken back, but then relaxes.


        Is that you, Randy? Cute.

The FIGURE stares at her, blankly.


        And what movie is this from? I SPIT ON


Tatum takes a step towards the FIGURE.


        Lose the mask. If Sidney sees it, she'll
        flip.

The FIGURE shakes his head slowly from side to side.


        Oh, you wanna play psycho killer?

The FIGURE slowly nods.


        Can I be the helpless victim?

The FIGURE slowly nods again.


        Okay, let's see. "No, please don't kill
        me, Mr. Ghostface. I want to be in the
        sequel."

Tatum takes a step to move around the FIGURE, but he steps too,
blocking her.


        Cut, Casper. That's a wrap.

Tatum moves again, sidestepping the FIGURE, but he's faster and
cuts her off.

Tatum juggles the beer against her chest with one hand and with
the other pushes the FIGURE hard, knocking him aside.


        Randy--will you stop?

But as the FIGURE intercepts, lunging forward, grabbing her wrist
hard, Tatum stumbles...beer cans hit the floor, spewing...


        You little shit.

Tatum yanks hard, releasing his hold when a flash of silver
catches her eye.  She looks down, glimpsing a long sharp blade as
it darts forward, cutting into her forearm...

Tatum pulls back, horrified, as the moment turns deadly serious.

The FIGURE advances on her--knife out, ready.  She staggers
backwards, holding her bloody arm, backing into the refrigerator,



        Who are you?

The FIGURE lashes out with the knife.  Tatum dodges it, leaping
back against the fridge.  The FIGURE advances.  Instinctively, she
rips the top freezer door open, BASHING the FIGURE in the face,
sending him backwards, reeling.

Tatum bolts to the...CLOSED GARAGE DOOR.  In a panic, she BEATS
and PULLS
on it, trying to make it lift.  She eyes the FIGURE...he's
recovering...

She goes for the pet door, dropping to the floor, diving for
it...she wedges her upper body through, her head, shoulders, torso
just as the...

FIGURE pounces, grabbing hold of her feet.  Tatum goes crazy
SCREAMING and KICKING trying to get through.



Tatum is half in/half out of the pet door.  She BEATS and JERKS
wildly, unable to see the FIGURE on the other side...

A true fighter, Tatum kicks hard, making direct contact with the
FIGURE, knocking him away.

She takes the moment to pull herself through further...but she
stops...stuck.  She pulls and tugs but can't move.  She listens
but hears nothing.  Where did he go?  An agonizing silence.  And
then...

CRR-BRRRM!  The garage door is activated.  It begins to rise
upward, taking
Tatum with it.  She SCREAMS MADLY.




Tatum's arms and legs fly about violently as she tries to free
herself from the door, but it moves too fast, carrying her up...

She looks above to see where the door rolls back into garage
rafters just as her neck hits the first beam, SNAPPING instantly.



It's getting late and SOME KIDS leave through the front door,
muttering, "parents and curfew", etc.  The door hangs open wide.
Sid moves to close it when....

BILLY appears in a classic fake scare.


        Billy? Jesus, you scared me.

Stu appears.


            
        Dude. What are you doing here?


        I was hoping Sid and I could talk.


        If Tatum sees you--she'll draw blood.


        You guys can go up to my parents room?
        To talk and...whatever.


        Subtlety, Stu. Look it up.


        It's okay. We need to talk.

Sid grabs his hand and leads him up the staircase.  Randy appears
from the kitchen just in time to see Sid and Billy disappear
upstairs.


        What's Leatherface doing here?


        He came to make up.


        There goes my chance with Sid.


        Like you had one.



Kenny fidgets at the control board.  He hits a coupla buttons,
bangs the side of the monitor and a picture emerges...the living
room.  The camera is positioned just above the television...



The party is in full swing.  Several TEENS sit right in front of
the television.  Because of the camera's position they appear to
be staring right into the lens.

Suddenly, the van's side door slides open and Gale pops in.


        Got a picture. Perfect placement. We
        can see everything.

Gale is ecstatic.


        Tell me, Kenny, has a cheesy tabloid
        journalist ever won the Pulitzer?



A large, master bedroom with glass doors that lead out onto a
balcony.

Sid and Billy stare at each other for a long moment.  Awkward.


        So...


        So...I'm sorry. I've been a selfish shit
        and I'm sorry.


        No, Billy. I'm the one who's been
        selfish and self-absorbed with all of my
        post traumatic stress.


        You lost your mom...


        But you're right--enough is enough. I
        can't wallow in the grief process forever
        and I can't keep lying to myself about
        who my mom was.

Billy bows his head quietly, knowingly.


        I think in some weird analytical,
        psychological bullshit way I'm scared
        I'm gonna turn out just like her, you
        know? Like the bad seed or something...


        Oh Sidney...


        Everytime I get close to you I see my
        mom. I know it doesn't make sense.


        Sure it does. It's like Jodie Foster in
        SILENCE OF THE LAMBS when she
        kept having flashbacks of her dead father.


        But this is life. This isn't a movie.


        Sure it is, Sid. It's all a movie. Life's
        one great big movie. Only you can't
        pick your genre.

Billy moves to her.  They embrace, tenderly.


        I wanna let go. I do...


        Ssshh...everything's gonna be okay. I
        promise.

Sidney takes the initiative, acting on impulse, kissing him long
and hard.  She breaks away passionately, out of breath.


        Why can't I be a Meg Ryan movie?

Billy nibbles her neck.


        Sshh..it's okay.


        Or even a good porno.


            
        What?

She stares at him, her eyes sexually charged.


        You heard me.


            
        Are you serious?


            
        Yeah...I think so.

They smile at each other.



The camera sits on the book shelf lodged between two knickknacks,
completely inconspicuous. The CAMERA WIDENS to reveal several
TEENS watching the TV--the horror diehards.


        Look, here it comes. SPLAT!


        The blood's not the right color. Why do
        they do that? It's too red.


        Here comes another...


        Predictable. Knew he was going to bite
        it.


        How can you watch this shit over and
        over?


        Shhhhh.


        I wanna see Jamie Lee's breasts. When do
        we see Jamie Lee's breasts?


        Not until TRADING PLACES in '83. Jamie
        Lee was always the virgin in horror movies.
        She didn't show her tits until she went legit.


        No way.


        That's why she always lived. Only
        virgins can outsmart the killer in the
        big chase scene in the end. Don't you
        know the rules?

Stu finishes his beer.


        What rules?

Randy hits the pause button on the remote and stands in front of
the television, explaining.


        There are certain rules that one must
        abide by in order to successfully survive
        a horror movie. For instance: 1. You
        can never have sex. The minute you get a
        little nookie--you're as good as gone.
        Sex always equals death. 2. Never drink
        or do drugs. The sin factor. It's an
        extension of number one. And 3. Never,
        ever, ever, under any circumstances, say
        "I'll be right back."


        Wanna another beer?


        Yeah.


        I'll be right back.

Everybody "ooohhs".


        There he goes folks--a dead man. Wave
        bye-bye.



Gale and Kenny watch the monitor.  The party is clearing out some

A RAP at the van door.  Gale pulls it open to see Deputy Riley
standing, his face all smiles.


        Sheriff just radioed me. I'm gonna check
        out a possible lead. Thought you might
        like to join me.


        What kind of lead?


        A car was spotted in the bushes a little
        ways up the road.


        I'd love to. If you're sure it's
        alright?


        Ma'am, I am the Deputy of this town.


        Can I bring Kenny?


            
        NO! I mean...I should probably take just
        you.

Gale steps out of the van turning back to Kenny.


        I'll be back.

She slides the van door closed.



Gale heads for Dewey's patrol jeep.


        Actually, I thought we could walk. It's
        not far.

Gale appears skeptical, but smiles anyway.  She's genuinely
smitten by this young guy.



SCARY MUSIC fills the room.  The party is reduced to the diehards
in front of the television.


            
        Look, here comes the obligatory tit shot.


        Beautiful! Finally!



Billy and Sidney are going at it...passionately.  He has his head
buried in her neck.


            
        "Eight is enough to fill our lives with
        love..."

It's working.  Sidney pushes Billy off her as she pulls her shirt
over her head.  She fumbles with the clasp of her bra as the...

CAMERA RUSHES IN on her breasts.  Just as Sid's bra straps slide
of her shoulders...

Billy moves in front of the CAMERA, pulling his jeans off,
Blocking Sidney from view.



Back in the living room, the horror fest continues when the phone
RINGS.  Everyone ignores it.  It RINGS again.

Finally, Randy grabs the receiver from the side table.


        Hello? Yeah....HOLY SHIT.

Randy, freaked, drops the phone, finds the TV remote and pauses
the movie, the others protest
"Hey, Put is back..." etc.


        Listen up. They found Principal Himbry
        dead. He was gutted and hung from the
        goal post on the football field.

This stills the room.  Complete silence as the news sinks in.  ON
different faces...a moment of devastation..disbelief.  And then:


        So what are we waiting for?


        Let's get over there before they pry him
        down.

And in seconds the room is empty as everyone bolts for the
door..HOOTIN' and HOLLERIN' ...leaving Randy, near drunk, alone in
the living room.  He returns to the movie.


        We were just getting to the good part.



Kenny is barely watching the monitor, he reached boredom some time
ago.  He finds a bag of Cheetos and chows down when he hears
SCREAMING from outside.  He peers out the window to see the last
of the PARTY KIDS pile into two cars and race off down the road.

He chews a Cheeto slowly, his interest piqued.



The sex is over...and both Sid and Billy are dressing
respectively.  That post-sex awkwardness.

Sid brushes out her hair as her eyes come to rest on the telephone
on the nightstand...it puzzles her as a stark reveleation crosses
her face.  She turns to Billy who sits on the floor, putting on
his shoes.


        Who did you call?


        What?


        When you're arrested-you're allowed one
        phone call? Who did you call?


        I called my dad.


        No, Sheriff Burke called your dad. I saw
        him.


        Yeah...and when I called no one answered.


        Uh-huh.


        You don't still think it was me?


        No, but if it were you, that would have
        been a very clever way to throw me off
        track. Using your one phone call to call
        me so I wouldn't think it was you.

Billy stands up.


        What do I have to do to prove to you I'm
        not a killer?

He makes a move toward her when..from behind, in a split instant,
from the open balcony doors comes...



Sidney sees the FIGURE immedietely, SCREAMING.  Billy tries to
calm her, oblivious to the advancing GHOST.




Billy barely turns as a long steely blade rises high in the air.
It strikes down with force...hitting his chest as blood sprays the
air.

ON SIDNEY as red crimson splatters across her face...as the knife
is thrust in and out of Billy who tries hard to put up a
fight..but it's useless...he never had a chance.  His body falls
to the floor..lifeless.



as he watches Billy's body come to a still before quietly, calmly
turning his attention to...

SIDNEY who stands, numb...scared to death.  And only when the
GHOST takes a step forward does Sidney break.  She takes off like
a rocket...leaping over the bed and out the door.



Sidney tears out the door and down the hall, coated in Billy's
blood.



as he catches up with her, grabbing hold of her collar.  She pulls
away from him...her shirt ripping down the back.

Her hands find a door knob and she goes for it, pulling the door
open...moving quickly inside...locking it behind her.



Total darkness.  Sidney's hands scour the wall for a light switch.
The doorknob turns...the lock holds..as the door is nearly SHAKEN
from it's hinges...and then...

NOTHING.  All goes silent.  Only Sidney's rapid BREATHING fills
the space around her.

Sidney, trembling, shaking, reaches above her, feeling, until she
finds a string.  She pulls it...as a lightbulb SWITCHES on
overhead.

She's in a small box of a room.  The door is on one side, a small,
narrow staircase on the other.  She eyes the doorknob, then the
staircase...contemplating...but it's an easy decision.  There's no
fucking way she's going up to the attic.

She unlocks the door and pushes on it.  But it won't give...she
pushes on it again.  It's locked from the other side.  Shit.  She
turns to the staircase.



A long, deserted country road.  In the distance, a single
flashlight beams ahead, the only light in the black night.  Gale
and Dewey can be heard.


        So is Dewey your real name?


        Dwight. Dewey was something I got stuck
        with a long time ago.


        I like it. It's... sexy.


        Nah... it's just this town's way of not
        taking me serious.


        What about Gale Weathers? I sound like a
        meteorologist...

CLOSE ON Gale and Dewey, walking closely, side by side-
flirtatiously.  Gale is surprisingly nervous.


        People treat me like the Antichrist of
        television journalism.


        I don't think you're so bad.

Gale smiles.


        Are all the local boys as sweet as you?

Dewey blushes.  He starts to say something when headlights appear
behind them.  They both spin as TWO CARS loaded with KIDS come
racing right at them.

Dewey grabs Gale and pushes her off the road... just as the cars
speed by, oblivious to them.



Gale lands face up with Dewey right on top of her.  He steals a
glance in her eyes before rolling off her.


        You okay?

Something takes Gale's attention.


        What's that?

Dewey looks to where gale points.  He finds the flashlight and
aims it into the bush.  The tail end of a car is just visible.


        Looks like a car.

Dewey helps her up and they move to it.  He shines the flashlight
on the plates but it's already obvious to the CAMERA.  This is the
same car we last saw Sidney's father driving away in.


        Shit. It's Neil Prescott's car.


        Sidney's father?


        We gotta get back. Jesus. He's here.
        What the fuck is he doing here?

Dewey is panicked.  He grabs Gale and they race off down the road.



Randy continues to watch TV.  He is now sloppy drunk, completely
involved in the movie on the screen.

SCARY MUSIC SWELLS, filling the room.


            
        No, Jamie. Look behind you! Watch out!
        Behind you!

And if he followed his own advice, he would see the GHOST MASKED
FIGURE that stands directly behind him...knife poised.



Kenny finishes off a soda and crushes the can in his hand.  He
tosses it to the floor when a movement from the monitor catches
his eye.

ON THE MONITOR is Randy, still on the couch, engrossed in the
movie.  Directly behind him...the GHOST.  Kenny does a double-
take.  No fucking way.  He watches as the GHOST stands still,
unmoving, knife raised.




The GHOST takes a silent step forward.


            


This kid needs help.  Kenny bolts out of his seat and goes for the
side door.  He slides it open and sticks his head out as...



comes at Kenny, fast and furious...slicing into his throat.  Kenny
falls forward...out the door as the GHOST MASKED FIGURE is upon
him.



just in time to see the GHOST MASKED FIGURE turn away from Randy,
leaving him unharmed, moving instead, out the front door, on a
thirty second walk to the newsvan.



The attic is long and narrow...cluttered with furniture, boxes,
and the likes...moonlight filters in through a small raised window
on the front wall of the house.

Sidney moves through the attic...BUMPING into this, KNOCKING over
that...she passes a dusty mirror, jumping at her own reflection.
She cringes at her image, drenched in Billy's blood.  She stares
long and hard...something about the blood, the redness of it.  She
moves on, determined.

She eyes the raised window above her...a way out...if she could
only reach it...



Gale and Dewey come running up the drive, frantic.


        I'll call for backup.


        I'll get my camera.

They split up.  The CAMERA FOLLOWS GALE as she rushes to the
newsvan, throwing open the door.


        Kenny! Camera! Quick!

The van is empty.


        Kenny?

A CAR HORN goes off.  Gale spins around.  It came from the patrol
jeep in the driveway.


            
        Dewey?

She moves across the yard to the jeep, the door hangs open...Dewey
is nowhere to be found.


        Dewey? Where are you?

A look of pure dread comes over Gale.



Sidney has stacked object after object building a ladder to the
window.  She climbs to the top, holding onto the window frame.

She spots Gale almost immedietely.  She SCREAMS OUT, looking for
the window latch.  But there's not one.  It doesn't open.  Sidney
starts beating on it...trying to break it...



Gale, hanging tough, approaches the front door, unable to hear
Sidney's SCREAMS three floors up.  Gale reaches for the door just
as she hears LOUD, HORRIBLE SHRIEKS from just inside.  She backs
away.



AN EAR-CURDLING JAMIE LEE CURTIS SCREAM BLASTS through the empty
living room as the horror movie on TV comes to it's horrifying
climax.

Randy is now gone.



Gale races across the yard putting distance between her and the
house.  She moves back to the van...



Sidney has found an old tennis racket.  She swings a solid
forehand at the window.



Sidney moves quickly, lifting herself up over broken glass and
pulling herself through the window frame.



Sidney wastes no time.  She looks for Gale, SCREAMING, but Gale is
gone.

Sid lowers herself down the ledge, sliding down a sloped portion
of the roof onto...



Then she eases herself over the railing and lowers herself,
letting herself hang as low as she can...then she lets go, free-
falling the rest of the way...but in a split instant...



grabbing her wrists in midair.

Her body hangs, dangling against the side of the house.  The GHOST
begins to lift her, pulling her back onto the balcony.

Sidney jerks, pulls, twists...but the HANDS have her, hoisting her
up...Sidney SCREAMS MADLY...yanking one last time, freeing
herself.

SHE DROPS TO THE GROUND, a good seven feet, landing on her back,
hitting hard.  She grabs at a pained leg and brings herself
upright.



Gale is frantic.  She starts the engine up and hits the headlights
when she discovers she can't see out of the windshield.

Gale rubs at the glass.  Sure enough, something is on the
windshield outside, blocking her sight.  Gale hits the wipers as
BLOOD SMEARS across the glass, it drips down from above.

Gale SCREAMS as a HAND reaches in through the open window...she
looks up to see...

RANDY, staring at her madly.


        What's going on?

A sheer moment of fear as Gale hits the gas plummeting the car
forward, into a ditch.  She hits the BRAKES.  Randy is thrown
forward, away from the van.

Gale reverses, backs up, hits the brakes again...just as Kenny's
face comes sliding down the outside of the windshield...eyes wide,
face distorted, blood everywhere.

Gale hits the gas, and yanks the wheel, sending Kenny's corpse
flying off the top of the van.

Gale spins the van around, onto the road, hits the gas madly,
gaining speed just as...



in the middle of the road, drenched in blood, very much resembling
a young Sissy Spacek.

Gale swerves to miss her, but she turns too sharp and the van
veers off the road at top speed...flipping over on its side,
sliding off into the thick foliage.



Sidney races to where the van lay on it's side.  Sidney peers
through the windshield...Gale's body lay limp and bloody.

SIDNEY CRIES OUT, turning, limping to the driveway.  She sees the
patrol jeep with it's open door...she goes for it.



Sidney hops in, reaches for the ignition...NO KEYS!  Shit.  Just
then, Sidney's eyes go to the front porch.  She watches as the
front door opens and a FIGURE appears in the darkness,
undetectable.

Sidney throws the headlights...illuminating the front side of the
house, revealing...






Sidney opens the jeep door, moving to him, noticing his body,
slumped, knees buckled...

And then his body falls forward, slowly, deliberately, hitting the
porch hard.  Standing behind him is...








Sid jumps back inside the jeep, closing the door, locking it.  She
reaches over and locks the passenger's door and then she...waits.

And watches as the GHOST leans over Dewey's still body, fumbling
with something.  Then the FIGURE stands upright, in his hands he
holds...



They jingle in the wind, the GHOST toying with her, enjoying
this...

Sidney, hysterical, locks eyes with the FIGURE as he moves to the
door, Sidney leaps on it, holding the lock button down, making it
impossible to unlock.  Her face is pressed against the
glass...inches from the MASKED FIGURE.

She uses every ounce of strength when suddenly, the GHOST
DISAPPEARS, dropping down, below the window, out of her view.

Sidney moves to the center of the jeep, trying hard to listen over
her own RAPID BREATHING, every sound AMPLIFIED.

Then she hears it, the soft JINGLING of keys near the passengers
side door.  She pounces on the lock, holding it down.

A shadow cuts the beam of the headlights, unseen by Sidney.  The
lock turns on the other side.  Sidney leaps over and holds it
down, securing it.  This is beyond nerve-racking.  Sidney is
certifiable.

Her eyes spot the police radio for the first time.  She grabs the
mouthpiece and hits the switch.


        Help! Please! I'm at Stu Maker's house
        on Turner Lane. Please, HE'S GONNA




ANGLE through front windshield.  Sidney RANTING into the police
band.  She doesn't see the...

GHOST FIGURE open the tailgate door of the jeep and slowly crawl
in behind her.

The GHOST FIGURE reaches out and grabs hold of Sidney's neck.

Sidney, with surprising strength, spins around and attacks the


She falls back against the dash, legs out, kicking wildly at him.

Her hand reaches for the door, finds the lock, the door lever, she
pulls...

The door swings open...

Sidney falls out of the door, hitting the ground.



Sidney, on her stomach, squirms away from the jeep.  She brings
herself up to her hands and knees, looking behind her to see
nothing...



Sidney's eyes roam the yard but he's nowhere.  Completely gone.
Vanished.  Sid crawls to the front porch where...



Thinking quickly, precisely, she reaches to Dewey's holster and
grabs his gun when a VOICE ECHO'S behind her...


            
        Sidney!

She turns to see Randy racing to her, limping.  He appears stone
cold sober.


        Jesus, Sid. We gotta get out of here.

Sidney throws the gun forward.


        Stop. Right there.


        Don't shoot. It's me.


        Don't come any closer.


        Listen to me, Sid. I found Tatum. She's
        dead, she's been killed...I think Stu did
        it.

He takes a step forward when another VOICE SPEAKS UP.


            
        Don't believe him, Sid.

Sidney spins around to see Stu moving up the walk.


        He's lying. He killed Tatum. And Billy.

Stu moves closer to Sidney.


        Stay away.

She aims the gun in his direction.


        His movie nut mind has snapped, Sid.
        He's gone psycho.


        Don't listen to him. It's him. He's the
        one.

Sidney has lost it, she doesn't know who to trust.  She aims the
gun at Stu..then Randy..then Stu...


        Come on, Sid. Give me the gun.


        No, Sid.

They both move toward her.  There's no time.  She must act now.
Finally...


        Fuck you both.

And with that, Sidney steps back into the house and SLAMS the
front door shut.



Sid locks and bolts the door.  From the other side she can hear
Randy SCREAMING.





His fists POUND against the door.  Sidney, stumbling in the
darkness, rushes to the phone in the living room.  Just as she
reaches for it...it RINGS.  It scares the life out of her.  She
SCREAMS, yanking it up.


        Please! God! Help me!


            
        Having fun Sidney?

Sidney falls apart, SCREAMING.




She throws the phone down, disconnecting the call.

Sid moves back to the door.  RANDY'S SCREAMS ARE MADDENING.  She
eyes the lock, deliberating.


            




Sidney looks up the staircase, into the darkness, her face SHOCKED
to see...



emerging from the shadows, stumbling down the stairs.  Very much
alive.


        Oh God. Billy!

He's blood-soaked and dazed.  Sidney meets him in the landing,
grabbing him, holding him...


        I thought you were...


        I'm alright. Gotta...get...help.

Billy goes for the door.


        He's out there.

Randy continues POUNDING ON THE DOOR, SCREAMING AT THE TOP OF HIS



            
        Please, you gotta let me in. He's
        gonna kill me.

Billy goes for the door.  Sidney blocks him.


        NO! Don't believe him.


        It's okay. Give me the gun.

Sidney hands him the gun.  Billy turns and unlocks the door,
opening it.  Randy rushes in, grabbing Billy, pleading...


        Help me...


            
        Shhhh. It's okay.


        Stu's flipped out. He's gone mad.

Slowly, a small smile creeps across Billy's face.


        "We all go a little mad sometimes."

Randy squints, confused, as Billy aims the gun at Randy and pulls
the trigger.  The BLAST throws Randy's body against the wall
before sliding to a heap on the floor...still.


        Anthony Perkins--PSYCHO



Who stands only feet away, face aghast...

Fuck, no...this can't be happening.  Billy's eyes are on her,
unmoving.

He sticks his tongue out and slowly licks the blood dried to his
face...tasting it.


        Corn syrup. Same stuff they used for
        pig's blood in CARRIE.

Sidney is dumbfounded.  Slowly, she takes a step back, moving into
the dark refines of the kitchen.

Billy, lurches forward in a fake-out, baiting her.  She takes
another step back--petrified.

CLOSE ON BILLY'S FACE.  It is no longer familiar to Sidney.  There
is something inhuman now about his features.  His expression is
pure evil.

She takes another step back, shrinking into the dark kitchen.

THE CAMERA TAKES A MOMENT TO ADJUST TO THE DARKNESS as the outline
of a FIGURE appears...



She continues to back up, moving right into the arms of...



Sidney spins around...her mouth open in speechless horror.


        Stu...please...help me...

Stu stares back at her, eyes wide, lips curled in a subtle smile
as he holds a small compact CELLULAR PHONE up to his face.


            
        Surprise, Sidney.

His VOICE sounds affected now...the VOICE of the killer.

Sidney looks back to Billy, then to Stu, then to Billy again.  It
becomes all too clear.

She stands between them, her mind racing, calculating...



If for no other reason than to put space between her and
them...they stand in the entryway, trapping her in.


        Where ya going? It's not over yet. We've
        got one more surprise--Stu, I believe it's
        your turn.


        Oh yeah

Stu disappears into the kitchen.


            
        What's wrong? You look like you've seen
        a ghost.

Sidney stands, trying hard to hold a calm resolve.

A NOISE comes from the kitchen.  A low dragging sound.  Stu
reappears from the front hall...wrestling with
something...someone...

CLOSE ON STU...he has a body in tow, he thrusts it forward and it
rolls into the living room.  Sidney looks down to find...



bound and gagged.  His eyes wide in fear, very much alive.


        Daddy!

She starts for him.


        Close enough.

Stu places the cellular phone in Mr. Prescott's shirt pocket.


        Guess, I won't be needing this anymore.


        Why are you doing this?


        It's all part of the game.


        It's called GUESS HOW I'M GOING TO DIE!


        Fuck you.


        We already played that game. You lost,
        remember?


        You have to play, Sid. Don't want to
        disappoint your dad. He's been waiting
        around all night.


        It's an easy game. We ask you a
        question. If you get it wrong--you die.


        And if you get it right--you die.


        You're crazy--both of you.


        The official term is "psychotic".


        You'll never get away with this.


        Tell that to Cotton Weary. You wouldn't
        believe how easy it was to frame him.


        Yeah, we just watched a few movies. Took
        a few notes. It was fun.

Billy and Stu relish their madness, proud of themselves.

Sidney looks to her dad, sees the tears in his eyes.  She looks
back to Billy, unflinching..a determined look on her face.


        Why did you kill my mother?


        Why? WHY? Did you hear that, Stu? I
        think she wants a motive. Hmmm...I don't
        really believe in motives, Sid. I mean, did
        Norman Bates have a motive?

Stu plays along, shaking his head.


        Nope.


        And did they really ever explain why
        Hannibal Lecter liked to eat people?
        Don't think so. You see, it's scarier
        when there's no motive, Sid.


            
        I don't understand...


        We did your mom a favor, Sid. The woman
        was a slut bag whore who flashed her shit
        all over town like she was Sharon Stone or
        something.


            
        ..so we put her out of her misery. I
        mean, let's face it, your mom was no
        Sharon Stone.

Stu cracks up over this while Billy turns very serious.


        Is that motive enough for you? Or how
        about this? Did you know your slut
        mother was sleeping with my dad and she's
        the reason my mom moved out and deserted
        me.

A sudden silence.  Sidney is rigid with shock, his words resonant
with truth.


        What?

Even Stu is surprised with his seriousness.


        Think about it. On the off chance I get
        caught-a motive like that could divide a
        jury for years, don't you think?. You took
        my mother, so I took yours. Big sympathy
        factor. Maternal abandonment causes
        serious deviant behavior. It certainly
        fucked you up. It made you have sex with
        a psychopath.


        That's right and now that you're no
        longer a virgin. You gotta die--those
        are the rules.

Billy sits the gun down on the table near the foyer.  And then
moves to Sidney with the butcher knife in hand.


        Pretend this is all just a scary movie,
        Sid. How do you think it's going to end?

Sidney doesn't respond.


            
        This is the best part, Sid. Billy's got
        it all figured out. Why do you think we
        kept your father alive so long? Why did
        we save you for last?


        You know what time it is, Sid? It's
        after midnight. It's your mother's
        anniversary. We killed her exactly one
        year ago today.

Billy turns to Stu with the knife.  They eye each other.


        Ready?


        Yeah...

Billy pulls the knife back and brings it forward quickly, slicing
into Stu.  He stumbles to ho his knees, WINCING in pain.


        Jesus...

Sidney SCREAMS...as blood gushes..real blood, a dark, deep red.
Stu inspects the wound to his side...then he smiles...


        Good one. My turn.

He takes the knife from Billy.


        Don't forget-stay to the side and don't
        go too deep.

Stu stabs at Billy's belly, puncturing him...Billy doubles over...


        Jesus...fuck, that hurt.


        Stop it!


            
        Got the ending figured out yet? Time's
        running out.


        Come on, Sid. Think about it. Your
        father is the chief suspect. We cloned
        his cellular. The evidence is there.

Billy takes the knife and slashes at Stu's arm, two quick
cuts...he doubles over...


        What if your father snapped? Your mom's
        anniversary set him off and he went on a
        murder spree, killing everyone...


            
        Except for me and Billy...we were left
        for dead...


        And then he killed you and then shoots
        himself in the head. It's a perfect
        ending.


        Everyone dies but us. We get to carry on
        and plan the sequel. Let's face it, these
        days--you gotta have a sequel.

Stu takes the knife and cuts at Billy.


        You sick fucks--you've seen one too many
        movies.

Billy looks at her, bent over, crazed.


        Oh Sid, don't blame the movies...Movies
        don't create psychos. Movies just make
        psychos more creative.

Stu staggers a bit.


        That's it, Billy. I can't take any more.
        I'm feeling woozy.


        Get the gun. I'll untie Pops.

Billy moves to Sidney's father.


        Where'd you put it?

Stu is searching the foyer for the gun.


        It's on the table.


        No, it's not.

Billy hobbles over.  The gun is gone.


        Where the fuck is it?


            
        Right here, asshole.

Billy and Stu look up in unison to see...



standing in the front door way, gun in hand.  Her body tattered
and bloody.  Her hair a mess.


        I thought she was dead.


        She looked dead. Still does.

Gale holds the gun firm, in total control.


        I've got an ending for you. The reporter
        left for dead in the newsvan comes to,
        stumbles upon you two dipshits, finds the
        gun, fumbles your plan, and saves the day.

Sidney steps forward.


        I like that ending.

Billy lunges at Gale, but she holds steady.  Billy and Stu eye
each other.


        She can't get both of us.


        Odds are--she'll miss anyway.

In a mad rush, they storm Gale, heading straight at her.  She
pulls the trigger, but nothing happens...the safety is on.

Billy charges forward, grabbing hold of the front door, SLAMMING
IT SHUT.  It catches Gale in the face, knocking her backwards out
the door.  She goes down...out.


        Cool move.

Billy steps out the front door and retrieves the gun from where
Gale lays.  Then he turns back inside the house to find...




        Where'd she go?

Stu looks around, staggering now, bleeding heavily...Sidney has
completely disappeared.  Only her father, bound and gagged remains
in the living.


        I don't know Billy but I'm hurtin'.


        Where the fuck did she go?

Suddenly, the phone RINGS.  Billy and Stu look at each other.
Completely surprised.  Billy scrambles over to the phone.


            
        Hello?


            
        Are you alone in the house?

Billy looks to Mr. Prescott.  The cellular phone is gone.


        You bitch--where the fuck are you?


        Not so fast.  We're gonna play a little
        game. It's called GUESS WHO JUST



Billy looks around the living room.


        Find her.

Billy is fuming now...slightly staggering...and starting to lose
it.  He SCREAMS at Stu who has fallen to his knees.





        I can't...I'm bad off, Billy. You cut
        to deep.

Billy throws the phone at Stu.  He mouths to him, so Sid can't
hear.  "Talk to her..."  Then Billy takes off for the kitchen.
Stu takes the phone.


            
        So Stu, what's your motive? Billy's got
        one. The police are on their way. What
        are you going to tell them?


        Peer pressure...I'm way to sensitive.

Billy flies back in the room, grabbing the phone from Stu.  He's
completely nuts now, staggering, bleeding, totally insane.


            
        I'm gonna rip you up bitch. Just like
        your slut whore mother.


        Gotta find me first, you pansy-assed
        Mama's boy.

Billy starts ripping the room up, overturning furniture in a mad
fit of rage...when he notices the hall closet.  Touche!  He smiles
deliriously, heading for it, ripping it open as...

A GHOST MASKED FIGURE strikes from within, with an umbrella, the
sharp end hitting him in the chest as it fans out.  Billy stumbles
back, stunned, as the GHOST comes at him again...the umbrella
lodges in his chest, and he goes down.

Sidney rips the GHOST MASK off her head.  She looks at Billy,
disgusted, throwing the mask on Billy's now still body.  A
movement behind her sends her reeling around to find...

RANDY slowly sitting up.  His body drenched in blood.  He's
alive...barely.  He looks to Sidney...through pain...


        You know what I hate most about horror
        movies? The final scene...it just goes on
        and on...and it gets so stupid...

Randy manages to stand when a FIGURE COMES LEAPING at him,
completely unexpected...it's Stu...barreling into him...they fall
back into the living room.  Sidney grabs the gun next to Billy and
turns to the living room to find...

Randy and Stu rolling across the floor in a dead lock, fighting,
both seriously injured...Sid tries to find aim when a...

HAND GRABS HOLD of Sidney's ankle, toppling her to the
floor...once again she finds Billy on top of her...



Randy and Stu pound at each other, beating and clawing...

ON SIDNEY as she fights viciously, attacking with everything she's
got...

Randy is desperately trying to pry away from Stu...he grabs hold
of the television set and tries to pull himself off the floor out
of Stu's clutch...

His hands find the top of the TV...the VCR...he yanks on it,
gripping it with his hands, bringing it around with force-CRASHING
the VCR into Stu's head.  Stu drops.

ON SIDNEY as she digs her hand into Billy's open chest wound.  He
CRIES OUT BLOODY MURDER.  Her other hand brings the gun up to his
face...but he head bunts it out the front door...suddenly a flash
of silver appears above Sidney.

Billy has grasped the butcher knife...he rises it high above
Sidney ready to strike...when a bullet RIPS THROUGH THE FOYER
striking Billy knocking him back into the living room.

Sidney looks up to see...

GALE WEATHERS, holding the gun in a death grip as smoke rises
above the gun's chamber.

Sidney sits up as Gale moves to her, helping her.  Their eyes
meet.  A life truce.



Billy and Stu lay face up, head to head.  Sid and Gale move over
them, staring down.  Randy joins them.


        Sid, you found me out...I'm a virgin.
        And pretty happy about it right now.

Sidney nudges their bodies.  They both stir.


        Careful. This is the moment when you
        think the killer's dead, but then he
        springs back to life for one last scare.

Sidney grabs the gun from Gale.


        Not this time.

She positions her foot on Stu's chest and aims.


        This is for my Mom, asshole.

She SHOOTS him in the forehead, a clean and perfect shot.  The she
aims the barrel at Billy who's eyes suddenly open, blinking up at
her, blood bubbling from his lips.  He's not yet dead.  Their eyes
lock.


        And this Billy stud-bucket is for having
        an incredibly small weenie.

She FIRES another perfect shot.  They're both goners.

Sidney drops the smoking gun, standing silent over the bodies.  A
quiet moment when suddenly...



Both Sid and Gale and Randy SCREAM in epic, final scare
proportions as Mr. Prescott leaps forward, still bound and gagged.

Sid catches her breath, relaxing.


        Oh Daddy...

She rushes to him, untying him...while Gale moves to the bookcase
and retrieves the hidden camera.


        I wanna close-up.

Randy appears by Sidney's side, helping her untie her father.


        This is probably an inappropriate
        moment, but you think you'd want
        to maybe go out with me sometime...
        like on a date?

Sidney looks at him, dumbfounded.


        Maybe catch a movie?

A long moment as Sidney's face goes from disbelief to resignation
to the slight trace of a smile.


        Only if it's a nice Meg Ryan movie.


        You got it.

He smiles at her...watching as Sidney grabs hold of her father,
holding him tight as Gale Weathers, with camera in hand, gets one
hell of an ending to this SCARY MOVIE.





