



if 
top.location.href=location.href










by

William Goldman





A TINY FIGURE OF A MAN hurrying toward camera. The figure gets 
larger as he approaches. But as yet we cannot tell who he is or 
where we are.

				MALE VOICE 
		This is the most famous true story
		of Africa. It happened a hundred
		years ago, but even now, when
		children ask about it, you do not
		tell them at night.
			(The FIGURE continues 
			to grow)
		It began with the race to build a
		railroad across Africa.
			
		But this is not about building a
		railroad- it is about Patterson.

And now we can tell that the FIGURE is a YOUNG MAN, A LIEUTENANT 
COLONEL. This is PATTERSON. He is gifted and bright and serious, 
serious about his life, serious about his career. He has been 
successful in everything he's attempted, in part because of his 
talents, in part because he is willing to outwork anybody.



More specifically, in a high-ceilinged corridor of an elegant 
building - lovely woodwork all around. Everything is neat, 
everything is clean and in order.

				MALE VOICE 
		Patterson was thirty. A brilliant
		engineer. A fine man, but do not
		become attached to him- there are
		many fine men in this story but do
		not become attached to any of them.
			
		So many of them die.

Patterson stops at a large ornate door, knocks. Waits.

				MALE VOICE 
		And remember this: only the
		impossible parts of what follows
		really happened...
			(Now the door opens
			and we-)



Just a wonderfully handsome man standing in the doorway. This is 
ROBERT BEAUMONT - 40, with an irresistable smile. We're in his 
office and the place reflects the man - clean, cold. There are 
maps and charts on the walls. He ushers Patterson inside.


			
		John Henry Patterson, come in. I'm
		Robert Beaumont.
			
		Firm- I like that, tells me a lot
		about you-
			
		-now why don't you tell me about me?
		To get you started, many people find
		me handsome, with a wonderful smile.
		I'm sure you agree.
			(Surprised, uncomfortable,
			Patterson nods)
		Winning personality, heaps of charm?


		My wife is the game player in the
		family, sir.


		Games?
			
		Look at me closely, Patterson: I am
		a monster. My only pleasure is
		tormenting people who work for me,
		such as yourself.
			(again the smile - only
			now it's chilling)
		One mistake and I promise you this:
		I'll make you hate me.



PATTERSON, as he realizes Beaumont is serious. Beaumont turns 
sharply and moves to a large map.



THE MAP. It covers a great deal of East Africa with a very clear 
line that ends at Lake Victoria, a distance of some 600 miles.


			
		We are building this railroad
		across Africa for the glorious
		purpose of saving Africa from the
		Africans. And, of course, to end
		slavery. The Germans and French
		are our competition. We are ahead,
		and we will stay ahead providing
		you do what I hired you to do-



A MORE DETAILED MAP. This one ends at "Tsavo," 130 miles in.


		-build the bridge over the Tsavo
		river. And be finished in four
		months time. Can you do that?


		I'm sure you've examined my record.
		So you know I've never yet been
		late on a bridge.


		You've never built in Africa.


		But I have in India- every country
		presents problems.


		You'll need your confidence, I
		promise you.


		I've got a reason far beyond
		confidence: my wife is having our
		firstborn in five months and I
		promised I'd be with her when the
		baby comes.


		Very moving, Patterson; I'm touched
		you confided in me.
			
		But I don't really give a shit about
		your upcoming litter. I've made you
		with this assignment-
			
		-don't make me break you.


			
		You won't have the chance.
			
		Any further words of encouragement?
			
		Then I've a train to catch.

They look at each other a moment in silence - and it's very clear 
they do not like each other. Patterson turns, leaves and we





A train is loading up. A lot of activity, a lot of noise. 
Patterson stands in the midst of it, anxiously looking around.



HELENA PATTERSON, hurrying through the crowd. Early 20s, with the 
kind of serene beauty of Jean Simmons. She is still slim, has not 
begun to show. She spots him, puts a smile on, goes straight into 
his arms.


		I tried to be late, John- it would
		have been easier if you'd gone.


			(They are nutty about
			each other - he nods)
		We're not much good at goodbyes, 
		Helena.


			
		Tell me about Beaumont- does he
		understand how brilliant you are,
		how lucky he is to have you?


		It was embarrassing- the man showered
		me with compliments.

They start to walk hand in hand along the platform toward a 
quieter place. Patterson is suddenly very serious-


		Oh dear-
			
		-you're geting that downtrodden look
		again-


		-well, it's just...
			
		...other men don't abandon their wives
		at such a time-


			
		-oh please- if I'd been against your
		taking this, you would have abandoned
		me. You've been desperate to see Africa
		your whole life.


		What if there are complications?-


		-not "what if"- there will be, there
		always are. Which only means that our
		"son" and I- note my confidence- will
		have an excuse to come visit.

THE TRAIN WHISTLE sounds.


		Go, now.
			
		Such a gentleman.
			


		I am desperate to see Africa- but I
		hate the leaving.



HELENA. She hates it, too.


		You build bridges, John-
			
		-you've got to go where the rivers are.

They hold each other a moment more, then break, then back into 
each other's arms a final time, then-



THE TRAIN, and thick clouds of steam-

-Patterson runs into the clouds and disappears.





Patterson runs out of the steam and we





This is the train to TSAVO and Patterson is alone on the engine 
seat- a wooden bench in front of the engine used by railroad 
inspectors and visiting VIPs. Behind it is a white circular piece 
of wood used to keep the engine heat from the passengers.



NIGEL STARLING, running as best as he can alongside the train, 
trying to pull himself up onto the engine seat.

STARLING is a terribly appealing young man. Clothes do not fit him 
well, and he is constantly tugging at this sleeve or that 
shirttail, trying to get things right. He wears glasses, tends 
nonetheless to squint at the world. He is, above all, a good man, 
morally impeccable and very much a product of these Victorian 
times.


			(as Patterson helps
			him aboard)
		Many thanks.
			
		You're Patterson, yes?
			
		Nigel Starling- I'll be assisting you
		at Tsavo- but surely Beaumont must
		have told you that.


		He just gave me his "monster" speech.


		That. I know Robert seems dreadful, 
		but when you truly get to know the man,
		well, he's much worse.
			
		And I'm one of his defenders.
			
		Forget him for now- it's your first
		ride to Tsavo- I think you'll find it
		breathtaking.
			



STARLING coughing like crazy, hands over his face which is caked 
with dust- he and Patterson stare out at an absolutely dreary 
desert.


			
		"Breathtaking" doesn't begin to do it
		justice.
			(As Starling starts to
			laugh, his mouth opens
			and sand flies in, and
			his coughing fit returns
			and)







THE TWO OF THEM, bent over, arms covering their faces as the dust 
gets worse- a wind has kicked up.





Patterson and Starling are walking beside the train now, helping 
to push it, trudging through the dust. All the other passengers 
spread out behind them, also pushing- the train obviously needs 
all the assistance it can get.





Patterson and Starling, filthy, sit together. Starling has nodded 
off. Patterson has a book open in his lap-

-we can tell there are drawings of African animals- not all that 
accurate.

Now Patterson's eyes close and he sleeps.





Stokers shovel coal. They are exhausted but they keep at it.





He stares out-

-and from his face it's clear something special has happened. And 
now, at last-



SOMETHING SPECIAL- and what it is, of course, is Patterson's first 
view of the Africa of his imagination.

Because the desert has ended, and now there are grasses and trees 
and one more thing-

-bursts of animals. On both sides of the train.

A flock of birds materializes here, a cluster of gazelles doing 
there amazing leap there.

Patterson is like a kid in a candy store.



PATTERSON AND STARLING, back outside in the engine seat again. 
Starling points-


		Aren't they amazing?



WHAT HE'S POINTING AT: Some giraffes running along, their absurd 
shape suddenly graceful as they eat up the ground in incredibly 
long strides.



PATTERSON AND STARLING, staring out.


		You know the most amazing thing
		about them?- they only sleep five
		minutes a day.
			(Starling glances at him-
			clearly, he didn't know that)



A FAMILY OF HYENAS. Close by, loping in their scary way.


		Don't much like them.


			
		The females are bigger- only animal
		here like that- have to be or they
		wouldn't survive because the males
		eat the young.



STARLING studying Patterson. Clearly, he didn't know that, either.



SOME HIPPOS moving along. Starling turns to Patterson.


		Anything special about them?


		Just that they fart through their
		mouths.
			
		Must make kissing something of a
		gamble.


			
		I've lived in Africa a year and I
		don't know what you know. How long
		have you been here?


			
		Almost three hours.
			
		But I've been getting ready all my
		life.
			



A BUNCH OF IMPOVERISHED-LOOKING NATIVE WOMEN. They hold children 
who wave at the passing train. The children are more impoverished 
looking than their mothers.


			
		Every time I see something like that,
		I know we're right to be here- to
		bring Christianity into their lives,
		enrich their souls.


		Beaumont says it's to end slavery.


			
		We all have our reasons. Mine is 
		simply to make them understand 
		happiness, accept salvation, know the 
		serenity that comes-
			
		-best I stop. One of the by-products 
		of my belief is that I can become 
		amazingly boring. But I know God smiles 
		on me.


			
		Have you got that in writing?
			(Starling, amazingly good
			natured, laughs. And now-)







Hundreds of white claws.



They aren't claws at all, they're thorns as sharp as claws and 
they're on a twenty-foot high thorn tree.

And there are dozens of those trees, packed together. All mixed in 
with other trees, low and stunted, and thick underbrush and baked 
red rocks-

-now the train begins to slow.

Smoke drifts across.

A bunch of wildebeest scatter off the tracks.

				STARLING 
		Welcome to Tsavo.
			





We have arrived at the train station area and what we see is a 
place that is still being built. There are tin shacks; a water 
tower is under construction-

-men are working everywhere, for that's what Tsavo is: a place for 
work.

THE TRAIN goes slower still.

No one stands idly around here.

But no one looks happy either.

ONE MAN is apart from the rest: this is SAMUEL.

An ageless Masai, tall and slender, he has a smile that can light 
the world.



PATTERSON AND STARLING as they step off the train.


			(indicating Samuel,
			who is approaching)
		Samuel is camp liaison- absolutely
		indispensable- the only man here
		everyone trusts.


			
		Does he speak English?


			
		And very poor French.


			
		Samuel- John Patterson.


			
		The bridgebuilder-
			(gesturing to the 
			working men)
		-we have been getting ready for 
		you.


		Excellent. Could I see the bridge
		site?
			


		I've got medical supplies to
		deliver. Come along to the hospital
		when you're done.
			


		I will bring him, Nigel.

We should realize by now that Samuel's was the voice we heard at 
the very beginning of the picture.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL, starting to walk. They pass the water tower.

Standing on top of it in a precarious position is an extremely 
powerful INDIAN. He waves to Samuel who waves back. This is SINGH.

WORKERS study Patterson as he moves by. Not smiling. Up ahead, 
some SIKHS are erecting tents. Not smiling.


		Why do the workers look unhappy?


		Because they are here.
			
		Because Tsavo is the worst place in
		the world.
			
		Come, John- to the bridge.
			



THE RAILROAD TRACKS as the camera pans along.



THE RIVER in the distance as they walk toward it.

And here is as good a place as any to explain just what the spot 
where the movie takes place was like.

There were five hundred men working for Patterson. And they lived 
in a spread out area. A bunch of Indian coolies who might have 
come from the same town back in their country might choose to live 
in one cluster of tents. A group of natives might be in another 
cluster.

What we have then, as far as living places are concerned, are 
dozens of clusters of tents. (Eventually, as the terror began, 
these areas all got surrounded, each with its own thorn fence.)

The places we'll come to know best are, among others, Patterson's 
living area, the hospital tent area, the area by the river where 
the bridge is to be built, etc., etc.

As they move, Samuel points out various camps.

A SECT OF INDIANS is getting ready for prayer.

ANOTHER SECT OF INDIANS is eating.

A GROUP OF AFRICANS are cleaning their tent area.

Anyway, you get the idea. Just remember that the place covered a 
wide expanse, maybe a mile square, maybe more.

Okay, back to the story.


			(as they pass the INDIAN
			tent area where prayer is
			starting)
		It's all wonderfully under control,
		Samuel- you've done a splendid job.


		Thank you. The truth is this: you
		have to work at it constantly.


		The workers don't get on?


		Get on? They detest each other.
		Obviously the Africans hate the
		Indians. But the Indians also hate
		the other Indians. Some of them
		worship cows, while others eat them.
			











And suddenly the track just stops in mid-air as we



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL standing high above the Tsavo River. The 
track has come to the edge of the area above the riverbank- where 
it just stops-

-and picks up on the far side. All that's missing, in other words, 
is the hundred-yard-long bridge that will connect the pieces of 
track.


			
		Railhead is across there.



THE DISTANCE. Nothing can be made out clearly but there are great 
clouds of dust.


		Three thousand men laying track- when
		the bridge is done, it all joins up.

Patterson nods, says nothing, but goes to his haunches, staring at 
the space where the bridge is to be.


		Did it look like this in your mind?


			
		This is more difficult-



PATTERSON. CLOSE UP. Excited.


			
		-but how wonderful that it's 
		difficult, it should be difficult- 
		what better job in all the world
		than build a bridge?- make things
		connect- bring worlds together- and
		get it right!
			





as Patterson and Samuel walk in. Patterson glances around-

-it's not bad at all. Of course there are some patients, injured 
or with fever. But like the rest of the camp we've just seen, 
everything is working well, everything is under control. Starling 
approaches.


		Finish your tour?


			
		And anxious to get started.
			
		What is this, mostly malaria?


		Yes- but their suffering is only
		transitory- once they except God
		into their hearts, He will vanquish
		all pain.

				MAN'S VOICE 
		That's just vomitous talk, Nigel- the
		poor bastards will relapse if you keep
		on that way.
			



DOCTOR DAVID HAWTHORNE. A tough, middle-aged cockney. And a heavy 
drinker. A man who hasn't been tactful in twenty years.


			
		I'm David Hawthorne, this is my
		hospital. And my advice to you is,
		"don't get sick in front of it."
			
		That was meant to be charming, 
		sorry. I seem to have lost the knack.


		You never had it.


		Nigel and I don't like each other much.


			
		I am also liaison between these two.


			
		Clearly you don't agree about building
		the railroad?


		This sham? Ridiculous. Who needs it?
		It's only being built to control the
		ivory trade, make men richer.


		Then why do you stay?


		Who else would hire me?
			
		Beat you to it, didn't I?
			
		Oh yes, almost forgot- brought you a
		little welcoming gift.
			



A NERVOUS ORDERLY who approaches them. He has been freshly 
bandaged across one shoulder.


		This is Karim, one of my orderlies-
		attacked by a man-eater earlier
		today- first incident of that kind
		here.

Patterson says not a word, just studies the wounded man.


			
		A man-eater attacks and you're such
		a buffoon you almost forget to mention
		it?


		Well, he got away, didn't he?
			
		Riding a donkey not far from here 
		when the lion sprang on them- donkey 
		took the brunt of it- then suddenly 
		the lion ran off.



PATTERSON. Listening. No emotion on his face.



HAWTHORNE. He's kind of enjoying this. Bearing down.


		I know it's your first day and of
		course you must be tired from the
		journey-
			
		-but what are you going to do about
		it?


			
		Karim will have to show me where it
		happened. And of course, I'll need
		the donkey.
			
		With any luck, I'll sort it out tonight.
			(And he walks out, leaving
			an astonished Starling
			staring after him)





Starling has a tent there, too, as do Samuel and Hawthorne. And 
there are half a dozen ORDERLIES.

Right now, Patterson is unpacking, moving in and out of his tent. 
Starling, sipping tea, sits and watches.


		I couldn't believe it when you said
		"sort it out." As if it were the most
		normal thing in the world. "Ho-hum,
		what lovely tea, I think I'll bag a
		killer beast this evening, nothing
		much else going on anyway."


		Well, he put me in a spot, didn't he?
		But that's all right- after all, I'm
		responsible for everything that happens
		here. And it certainly won't do much
		for morale if a man-eater's on the prowl.

He goes into his tent with some books now and we go with him. 
There is a photo of Helena on a small table. A photo of an ELDERLY 
COUPLE, clearly his parents. His clothes are stacked with 
precision. He arranges his books precisely too.

Clearly, John Patterson is a man who believes in order.


			
		You said "of course" you'd need the
		donkey. Why "of course"?


			(taking a rifle,
			moving outside)
		We know three things about man-eaters.
		First, they always return to where
		they've attacked before. Second, they're
		always old- they can't catch other 
		animals so they turn to us. And third,
		they're always alone- they've been cast
		out by their pride because they can't
		keep up.



STARLING, sipping his tea and there's no hiding it, he's excited. 
But also a bit reluctant.


		I don't suppose I could watch.


			
		Might be exciting for you.


		I've never been all that adventurous.
		I wouldn't be in the way?


		I'd love the company. And I've hunted
		all my life.


			
		Well, why not? You seem so calm and
		experienced.
			
		Why not, indeed!
			





It's roped loosely to a tree, bells around its neck. When it 
moves, they make a sound. Middle of the night. A night wind.



We're in a clearing with thick trees all around.



PATTERSON AND STARLING, seated uncomfortably in a tree on the edge 
of the clearing, twelve feet up in the air. Patterson has his 
rifle ready. This next is all whispered.


			
		I hate to be a bother, John, but the
		cramp's getting worse.
			(Pulls up his trousers-
			his leg is knotted)
		The pain is actually quite unbearable
		now.


		Shhh.


		I'm sure you mean that to be comforting,
		but-


			
		-you'll have to deal with it, Nigel.


		That is precisely my plan- but back in
		my tent.
			



PATTERSON, grabbing him.


		They own the night- nobody moves when
		there's a man-eater out there.

Starling glumly obeys. Then-


		John? I know this isn't the time to ask,
		but-


		What?


		Since you'd only been here three hours
		when we met, are you sure this is how
		you hunt lions?


		Not to terrify you, Nigel, but it's worse
		than you think- I've never even seen one.



STARLING, not pleased with this news. He massages his calf, tries 
to get comfortable, which is impossible. Patterson just stares at 
the night.





The donkey dozes. So does Starling. Patterson has not so much as 
moved.

Now the bushes behind the donkey shake just a little.

And the donkey is suddenly awake and scared-

-and then it all goes crazy- the donkey screams and a lion appears 
from the bushes and Patterson fires one shot and the sound 


-and Starling topples from the tree to the ground, landing shocked 
but unhurt-

-he has landed close to the dead lion- he stares at it.


			
		...one shot...


			
		So that's what a lion looks like.
			





HOLD for a moment.

				SAMUEL 
		One shot- one-



Now Samuel comes walking into the shot, really excited-

-it's the first time we've seen his wonderful smile.


		Patterson has made the nights safe
		again.



As he walks on, behind him come THREE COOLIES carrying the body of 
the lion. As dozens of men come running in from all over to see 
the dead man-eater-


			

			(Now as the crowd
			continues to grow-)





It has two embankments on either side of the river.

These embankments are big- forty feet wide, fifty feet high.



PATTERSON AND STARLING standing on the high ground where the 
embankment will start. From here, there is a slope down to the 
river itself.

Also present is UNGAN SIGNH, who we saw earlier standing 
precariously atop the water tower. Singh, enormously powerful, is 
another assistant. Bright, a great worker, another main character 
in what is to follow.

Now Patterson starts to walk down the slope towards the river- 
it's not that easy to do without falling, but that doesn't bother 
him. He talks and gestures as he explains to the other two who 
move down with him.

Singh, for all his massive size, moves like a cat. Starling does 
not, slipping and sliding.


			
		All right, I'd like to start the
		embankments today-
			
		-sufficient supplies on hand?


			
		More than.


		With much more on the way-
			
		-John- we could have had this chat on
		flatter ground-


		-true enough- but without the comedy
		relief.
			(Starling, amazingly good
			natured, smiles, gets
			back up)



THE RIVER as they scramble down to it.



THE SLOPE they've come down- it's a long way back to the top.



THE THREE MEN. It's a glorious morning.


		How lucky we are.


		Aren't we full of ourselves today?
			
		I think it's because of the lion.


		Possibly.


			
		You know, I too have killed a lion.


		How many shots did you need?



SINGH. Almost embarrassed.


		I used my hands.

He holds his big hands up, palms out. Starling looks at Singh to 
see if he means it-

-he means it all right. Now, from Starling's perpetually surprised 
face-







PATTERSON sighting through it- we are on the far side of the river 
now. Singh is there, Starling, too.

Behind them: a field of tall grass.


		All right- thee second embankment
		will go there.
			(He gestures toward
			the river)


		You do plan to mark it a bit more
		precisely than just-
			
		-"there."


			
		In your honor, Nigel. And you and
		Singh will be in charge of building
		them- and you'll also build the
		roadbeds and the three foundation
		pillars- and you'll be finished in
		eight thrilling weeks.


			
		John, it will not be easy.


		Nigel, you'll just have to use your
		hands-
			(And he smiles, repeating
			Singh's gesture, both 
			palms out)



SINGH. He smiles back, starts to reply. But his words stop, his 
smile dies. He just stares and we-



WHAT HE'S STARING AT- the surrounding field of tall grass. Nothing 
unusual about it.



PATTERSON. He stares, too.



THE FIELD OF TALL GRASS- suddenly it begins to bend and sway in a 
fresh wind.



PATTERSON. Silent. As before. Starling follows his glance.



SINGH. Frozen.



THE FIELD. And now the field is making odd patterns- as if 
something unseen were moving through.



PATTERSON. Quiet. Just the wind.



THE FIELD. Nothing visible. But the odd pattern seems to be making 
its way across the field.



SINGH AND STARLING. Quiet. Just the wind.



THE FIELD. The odd pattern seems to stop. Around it, the wind 
makes different shapes of the grass.



PATTERSON, as the wind continues to blow. He continues to stare at 
the spot where the pattern stopped.



SINGH. As before. Except for one thing: suddenly, he begins to 
shiver, as if from cold.





And what we see are a lot of cuts of a lot of activity.

Huge wooden logs are carried in and hammered to each other and 
driven deep into the ground- the framework for the embankments.

And Singh carries the heaviest loads and leads the workers- and as 
the structure rises, he is the one darting along the top, high in 
the air, pulling more logs up, helping here, helping there.

And alongside him is his assistant, ABDULLAH, a little man with 
glasses and very bright eyes.

Meanwhile, Starling is leading construction on the embankment that 
is on the far side of the river. And he does his best, tries to 
help on the top part as it rises- but alas, he is a bit on the 
clumsy side and balance is a problem for him. But he stays with 
it, does well.

And Patterson, in tremendous spirits, helps when needed, but 
mostly he is dealing with other aspects of the bridge- such as the 
placements of the three stone foundation pillars-

-he wades into the water, climbs the structures, takes it all in- 
and at the start he is still in the uniform he has worn since the 
start of the story- but it's clumsy for labor-

-so he changes halfway through to civilian clothes-

-which is all he wears from now on.

And the workers tire in the heat- but Singh keeps them going, 
working with the power of three-

-and there are accidents and explosions, injuries and falls- and 
Hawthorne appears when needed to help with the wounded-

-it's hard, brutal work-

-but gradually, the wooden structure part is finished- two huge 
skeletons facing each other across the Tsavo River- and now work 
on the roadbed is going full blast and in the river, the three 
foundation pillars are taking shape-



TONS OF RED ROCK- being shoved into the wooden skeleton to 
complete the embankments. As this goes on-



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL in the river- the foundation pillar work is 
going very quickly.

Patterson stops working, looks across the river-

-movement in the grassy area on the far side.



SEVERAL NANDI TRIBESMEN as they rise out of the grass, gesture to 
Samuel who gestures back. The Nandi are a tribe of powerful little 
men, primitive, with teeth that have been sharpened to points.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL watching them.


		What are they looking at?


		You- they cannot believe you're
		still here.


		Nonsense.


		You don't know what Tsavo means, do
		you?
			
		It means "slaughter"...



THE NANDI TRIBESMEN, staring at Patterson, shaking their heads.



THE TWO EMBANKMENTS, as more and more red rock is shoved and 
pushed into shape.



THE THREE FOUNDATION PILLARS- almost finished.



THE ROADBED. The same.



THE NEAR EMBANKMENT as still more rock is forced in and



THE FAR EMBANKMENT done at last-



-and Singh stands on the top of the near one while across the 
river, Patterson pulls Starling to the top of the other.

And they all look at each other- the embankments are both 
finished- THE THREE OF THEM are flying-

-and what they do is this: hold their hands out toward each other, 
in Singh's gesture. It's kind of become their password.

HOLD. A big moment for them all!





He sits around a fire and the man is exhausted. His dinner plate 
is beside him, untouched. He's too tired to eat.





Starling is there, getting ready for bed. He's wiped out, too.



SINGH, going into his tent, lying down, breathing deep.



STARLING is in his tent, turning out his lamp, half asleep 
already.



PATTERSON in his tent, closing his eyes.



SINGH, deep asleep in his tent-

-he shares it with a dozen others and they're all deep asleep. 
They lie on the floor of the tent, heads together toward the 
center pole, feet toward the edges of the tent.

HOLD ON SINGH. It's very dark. HE AND HIS MEN just lie motionless, 
breathing deeply.



Now the CAMERA moves up, high into the center of the tent, looking 
down at the circle of men.



They don't move, not even an inch. The steady breathing is the 
only sound.





Nothing is going on down there. Nothing at all.



Not a goddamn thing.



And now two things happen at the same time- Singh's eyes go wide-

-and he starts to slide out of the tent, as if being pulled by 
some giant invisible wire-



SINGH. CLOSE UP. Screaming.



THE OTHER MEN IN THE TENT, waking, staring around and



SINGH as he slides out of the tent into the night and his screams 
grow even louder as we



THE OTHER MEN IN THE TENT and it's like a bomb just went off, they 
rise, spin, cry out, stare-



THE NIGHT OUTSIDE AND SINGH'S BODY sliding along the ground. It's 
pitch black, and he's going head first now, face upwards and he's 
going ast tremendous speed and whatever the hell it is that's 
making this happen is something we can't make out- because it's so 
dark and because it's on the far side of the man, and his body is 
in our way and



UP AHEAD, some bushes and



SINGH, his body going faster than before and his cries are 
weakening-



THE NIGHT and his body and there is no sound at all coming from 
him now and there is no sound from whatever it is that is making 
this happen- all we see, barely, is the limp body of the big man 
as it skims along and-



UP AHEAD NOW, a low clump of bushes.



SINGH'S BODY, coming closer and



THE BUSHES and as we get in on them we can tell they are thorn 
bushes and now-



SINGH, suddenly rising magically in the night, his body flying 
over the bushes and gone!



PATTERSON AND STARLING, early morning, their rifles held in front 
of them, racing along, suddenly stopping, staring down and



THE GROUND. At first we can't make out much. Then we can- a spot 
of red.



PATTERSON AND STARLING, hurrying on again.



THORN TREES, and as they force their way through them-



A LARGE VULTURE, wings spread wide as it floats slowly to earth-



-as it lands we can see A DOZEN OTHER VULTURES are already there, 
surrounding something-

-but we can't make it out. We are in an area of grass and shadow-

-and specks of blood.



PATTERSON, cries out in shock and fury, fires his rifle, races 
forward.



THE VULTURES screeching and screaming, taking off, and as we watch 
them soar into the morning sky-

				HAWTHORNE'S VOICE 
		What the lion must have done, once 
		he'd killed Singh, was lick his skin 
		off so he could drink his blood-





Hawthorne is examining Singh's body, trying to be professional, 
but he's clearly upset- it's awful.


		-then he feasted on him, starting
		with his feet-


			
		-please- you needn't be so graphic-


		You intend "sorting this out" tonight?


		I'll try- but this feels so different-
		that old lion I killed could never
		carry off a man Singh's size.


			
		But you said they were always old.


		That's what the books say...
			







ABDULLAH in tears. Where are we?



This is Singh's funeral pyre.

Singh's body is being burned.

A LOT OF INDIANS are there. We've caught sight of some of them 
before- they worked with Singh on the embankment or lived with him 
in his tent.

There is a terrible sense of shock.

Patterson stands at the rear. He is terribly moved. Now, unseen by 
the others, he holds his hands out in Singh's gesture one final 
time.



THE FLAMES; they continue to rise...





Night. The flaps that were open when Singh was alive are now shut 
and tied.



PATTERSON, the middle of the night. He is alone, fifteen feet up 
in a tree near Singh's tent. He holds his rifle, ready for 
anything. He cannot get comfortable.



THE AREA- nothing, no movement.



SINGH'S TENT. As before.



THE AREA. No sign of movement of any kind. Dead.



THE MOON. Lower in the sky. The night is growing to a lose but 
there is still darkness.



PATTERSON. Battling fatigue- but now, for a moment, losing- his 
eyes, against his will, start to close, and as they do-



TWO HUGE YELLOW EYES. That's all we see, just the eyes and they 
are near Patterson's tree and they are staring up at him and-



PATTERSON, startled, grabbing his rifle more tightly, staring down 
and-



THE HUGE YELLOW EYES- only they're gone.



PATTERSON, blowing on his hands, looking toward the sky.







PATTERSON, wrinkled and weary, frustrated and sore, walking back 
toward his tent area. Now he stops.



ABDULLAH and a large group of workers- only they're not working. 
They smoke, play cards, sit around.



PATTERSON, steaming, going up to Abdullah.


		You were contracted to work-


			
		-malaria epidemic; very sudden.


		Let me see the sick.


			
		Oh, you're a doctor now, too?


		There is no reason for fear.


		On that I choose to remain dubious.
			
		Two are dead now in two nights.
			



PATTERSON. Rocked. He didn't know. Behind him now, Starling 
hurries up, Samuel alongside.


			
		Second death? Where?-


			
		-far end of camp- man wandering alone
		at night. Hawthorne's examining the
		body now.
			
		There's even less of him than of Singh.


			
		But it's crazy- the lion shouldn't be
		that hungry this soon.
			(getting control- he
			looks to Samuel)
		Samuel?


		We should construct thorn fences 
		around every tent area. Fires burning 
		at night.


		Fine. Get started. And a strict curfew-
		no one allowed out at night.
			
		Send half your men to the bridge, the
		rest with these two.
			
		And I'm sorry for my tone earlier. But 
		I repeat- there is no reason for fear. 
		I will kill the lion and I will build 
		the bridge.


		Of course you will, you are white, you
		can do anything...
			(They look at each 
			other. They are not 
			friends. Now-)





ENDLESS NUMBERS OF THEM. There is a machete-like sound as we



A BUNCH OF WORKMEN, led by Samuel, chopping down branches. They do 
it with care- these are claws-



-STARLING, in charge of another area, and he's not hanging back, 
he's taking less care than the others, hacking away with his 
machete, moving in between bushes and



ONE OF THE BUSHES, SNAPPING BACK into Starling, and Starling 
taking the blow with his arms- the claws cut his clothing-

-his arms are starting to bleed-

-he is unmindful, continues to wade into the bushes, chopping at 
them, cutting them down. He is a good man doing a good thing and 
right now, he is possessed.



PATTERSON, leaving his tent area, lost in thought, going toward 
the bridge. Up ahead is a grassy area.





For a moment, nothing. Then there is the same kind of movement we 
saw with Singh. Something is making the grass move-

-only now there is no wind... HOLD.



PATTERSON. Did he see it? We'll never know.



STARLING, in charge of a thorn fence that is halfway finished. His 
clothes are shredded. A WORKER has finished with a section and 
satisfied, moves on-

-but Starling is far from finished. He grabs the thorns with his 
bare hands and squeezes them together.


		Not good enough- look, it's got to
		be tighter. Tighter.








We see more fences around more camp areas.



The entire place is filled with fences now, all the individual 
areas protected.

The skies are starting to darken- dusk is coming fast.

Fires start up. Dozens of them.

Still darker.

Now workers come racing home to their camps, anxious for safety 
before darkness takes over. They zig-zag this way, that way, 
dodging past each other sometimes they slam into each other, fall, 
get up, run on-



THE SUN. Falling out of the sky.



THE CAMP. The fires rise higher. No one moves... HOLD.



STARLING in the main tent area. He is bathing his bloody hands. 
Samuel is with him. Both are exhausted.

Patterson brings them each drinks. They nod thanks, drain them. 
They stand there together, lit by the flames of their fire. You 
get the sense these three will be friends forever.


		What a good week.


		You mean nobody died?


			
		We all worked together. Worthy deeds
		were accomplished. I liked the labor.
			
		My mother insisted on piano lessons-
		broke the dear woman's heart when I
		turned out to be tone deaf- but she
		still was always at me about being
		careful with my hands.
			
		I like the blood, is that strange?


		Oh yes, I think so.
			(Starling smiles, starts
			to speak)


		Look out, Samuel, here it comes.


		Even you two must admit that it is a
		glorious thing, what Man can
		accomplish. When there is a common
		splendid goal, there are no limits.
		Think what we will accomplish when we
		all have God's warmth in our hearts.
			(Samuel's eyes have 
			closed; he begins to snore. 
			Patterson can't help
			laughing)



STARLING. As good natured as ever.


		I am immune to your disdain.
			
		When I came here, I had but one small
		goal: to convert the entire continent
		of Africa.
			
		Now I've decided to move on to
		something really difficult: I will not
		rest until both of you are safely in
		the fold.


		I've had four wives, good luck.


		The struggle is the glory...
			



PATTERSON, the next morning, working with Abdullah and some others 
at the bridge.



STARLING completing work on the fence from the day before. It's 
high and taut and he's done a terrific job.





A BUNCH OF OTHER MEN are working near a large grassy field. One of 
the men starts a chant. The others pick it up. It's really pretty.



PATTERSON wading into the river- he stops as the sound of the 
chant comes distantly to him on the wind.



THE WORKMEN CHANTING LOUDER. It's turning into a stunner of a day- 
glorious blue sky broken up by pale clouds.



STARLING. Pauses briefly, listening to the sound of the men.



THE MEN WORKING AND SINGING. As before.



THE GRASSY FIELD. As before-

-except it isn't. Because if you looked carefully, something 
flicked in a 180 degree arc. No telling what it was, it was gone 
too quickly.







PATTERSON waist deep in the river, listening to the sound of the 
men, of the birds. The sun is higher in the sky.





-and here it comes again, only the other way this time, flicking 
back in another 180 degree arc-

-still hard to tell for sure what it was but maybe it was this: a 
tail. Now quickly-



PATTERSON wading out of the river as Samuel comes into view. He 
holds an envelope.


		For you.


			
		Thank you, Samuel.


			(watching as Patterson
			opens it)
		Good news?


			
		I expect so- it's from my wife.


		Do you love her?


		I do, actually; very much.


			
		You give me hope, John.
			



STARLING, probing at the thorn fence, searching out any last 
weaknesses.

Behind him now, in the tall grass, something moves.

Starling, intent on his work, notices nothing.



THE SINGING MEN, getting more and more into it.



PATTERSON, by the river, reading the letter.

There is a large tree up the riverbank. It casts a large shadow.

In the shadow now, something moves.

Patterson, intent on his reading, notices nothing.

				HELENA 
		Darling one- the big excitement
		yesterday was when some school-
		children spotted a whale-
			
		-they were looking at me, John-



HELENA, in their bedroom, moving across to the window, staring 
out. She now has a considerable stomach.


		That was an attempt at humor but I
		don't feel very funny these days. I
		miss you terribly and after our son-
		I still have total confidence- well,
		after he's born I think travel might
		be broadening. As he kicks me at
		night I'm quite sure he's telling me
		he definitely wants to come to Africa.
			
		Thought you might need reminding.



PATTERSON by the river. He smiles, folds the letter. Now-



THE SINGING WORKMEN at Tsavo station- and they sense how good they 
sound, and they really concentrate on it, on making that sound 
even better-

-there must be twenty of them, working and singing-

-and screaming!



PATTERSON, turning his head sharply and



STARLING, doing the same and



THE SCREAMING WORKMEN and they're running now, running and 
shrieking and that's all we see, the workmen-

-some of them run left-

-some run right-

-and now a few of them are starting to cry.



A FAT COOLIE running and running, glancing back, screaming louder, 
running on and on and



-a shadow in the grass- no telling what- but it's big and it's 
moving and



THE FAT COOLIE and this next goes so fast it could be a dream- or, 
more accurately, a nightmare-



A GIGANTIC WHITE MANED LION as it leaps onto the Fat Coolie, 
brings him to earth, bites his neck in two, kills him, just-like-
that.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL, as they race away from the river and



STARLING, running from the fenced area- he holds a rifle in his 
hands.



ANOTER PART OF THE CAMP AND A DIFFERENT BUNCH OF WORKMEN- they 
freeze as the screams reach them and



PATTERSON, on the way to his tent area and



DIFFERENT WORKMEN listening in fear and



PATTERSON, racing to his tent, grabbing his rifle and cartridges 
and



STARLING, running toward the screaming and



PATTERSON, as he charges ahead, loading his rifle on the fly and



SAMUEL, carrying more ammunition, running behind Patterson, 
keeping up and



TSAVO STATION and nothing is visible now- the men are gone and 
from this angle, it looks deserted and



PATTERSON, catching Starling, leading him into the TSAVO STATION 
area, Samuel just behind them.



A RECTANGULAR SHED, ahead of them. They move to it, slow-

-then they stop-

-a sound is heard- from around the corner- the sound continues- 
Patterson glances at Starling- the sound could be this: the 
crunching of bones.



PATTERSON, checking his rifle.



STARLING, doing the same. Samuel, holding the extra ammunition, 
moves close to Patterson. Now-



PATTERSON as he suddenly steps away from the shed, rounding the 
corner and as he does-



THE WHITE LION, with the Fat Coolie- the lion is crunching at his 
feet-

-then the lion stares toward the shed as we



PATTERSON, moving out into clearer view, Starling and Samuel right 
with him. THE LION is a good distance away.



THE WHITE LION, a low growl coming from him as he takes the 
coolie's body by the shoulder, begins backing away with it.



PATTERSON, dropping to his knees for the shot and



STARLING, doing the same and



THE WHITE LION, growling louder and



PATTERSON, taking aim and



SAMUEL, crying out and pointing and suddenly we're into super slow 
motion-

-Samuel has pointed back toward the roof of the shed and-

-and this thing is suddenly there-

-this huge dark thing and it seems to suddenly appear from the 
flat roof of the shed and



THE SUN, blocked out as this dark thing moves across it, fully 
stretched, it seems to go on forever and



PATTERSON, turning around to see and



STARLING, turning too, and we're coming back into regular motion 
now as we



This enormous BLACK-MANED LION diving into the three, sending them 
all sprawling and



THE WHITE MANED LION roaring and



THE BLACK MANED LION roaring, running to the other and





THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS, for that is how they will be referred 
to-

-and The Ghost has blood and bits of flesh on its mouth-

-The Darkness has eyes that are crazed-

-they are destruction bringers, these two, they can kill the old 
and the young and the fat and the strong-



PATTERSON, lying in pain, dazed, shoulder bleeding, trying to 
reach for his rifle and



THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS, the white and the black, as they move 
toward the field of tall grass, roaring and



SAMUEL, lying in pain, his leg is bleeding and



PATTERSON'S RIFLE and



PATTERSON, as he reaches it, manages to lift it and the roaring 
sounds are deafening now and



THE TWO GIGANTIC MALES, backing into the tall grass-

-they roar one final time-



PATTERSON, gun ready to fire but it's futile and he knows it as we



THE TALL GRASS and they're gone, the grass is full of moving 
patterns from the wind- that's all we see- just the grass blowing 
this way, that way-



PATTERSON, staggering to his feet, staring at the grassy field.


			
		Jesus, two of them...



SAMUEL. Dazed too. He points. Patterson registers, turns and



STARLING, LYING DEAD, his throat ripped open. HOLD briefly on the 
young man, then-





A train from Mombassa is slowly pulling in. And things are fairly 
chaotic- there is the usual activity of what is ordinarily one of 
the busier parts in camp-

-but now, something new has been added: Abdullah is there with 
several dozen coolies who work under his command. THey are waiting 
for the train.

Patterson and Samuel are there too- and at the moment, Abdullah 
and Patterson are in the middle of a screamer- first one of them 
walking away, then coming back, then the other doing the same.


			(shouting over the noise
			of the approaching train)
		-oh, sing a different song, Abdullah-
			(gesturing toward the men
			who stand by the train
			tracks)
		-there's nothing wrong with your men
		so stop telling me there is-


			
		-you do not call me a liar- you know
		nothing of their health- consider
		yourself fortunate I persuaded so 
		many to stay- consider yourself 
		fortunate I have decided to stay-


			
		You think you matter?
			(gesturing toward the
			train which is close to
			stopping now)
		-Beaumont is on that train- he 
		matters-



PATTERSON, moving in on Abdullah now-


		He sees this chaos, he'll replace 
		you all.


		He'll replace you, too- that's all 
		you really care about.


		You think so? Fine.
			
		It's best you get out. Go. Tell all 
		your people to go, run home where 
		they'll be safe under the covers and 
		when the bridge is built and the
		railroad is done, they can tell their
		women that out of all the thousands
		who worked here, they were the only
		ones to flee-
			(And he wheels around,
			starts to walk away as we-)



ABDULLAH. Quiet, staring after Patterson.



SAMUEL. Patterson has won. As the two of them exchange a quick 
glance-



BEAUMONT standing in the door of a passenger car, handsome as 
ever. Somehow his clothes are still pressed.

Patterson moves up. In a splendid mood. Samuel is happy too.


		Pleasant journey?


			
		How could it be? I hate Africa.

Now there is the sudden sound of men singing- Patterson looks 
around and we



ABDULLAH and his workmen, moving away from the train- they are 
singing the same song that the workmen sang just before The Ghost 
and The Darkness attacked- it's pretty- but it's also a little 
unnerving.



BEAUMONT. Listening a moment.


		Lovely sound- they seem happy.


		Don't they, though?


		So work must be going well?



PATTERSON. He and Samuel share another glance.


			
		Truthfully?
			
		There has been the occasional odd
		hiccup- but then, as you so wisely
		told me, I'd never built in Africa.


		But overall, you're pleased?


			
		I have never experienced anything
		like it.



BEAUMONT; almost longingly looks back at the train.


		I almost feel like getting right
		back on.
			



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL. They do not breathe.



BEAUMONT. He really wants to leave and for a moment it looks like 
he just might.


			
		I suppose it would be a dereliction
		of duty not to at least look around.

Now Abdullah wanders happily by.


			
		Morning, friend, glorious day.


		As are they all.



BEAUMONT. He takes a step inside the passenger car.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL. Hoping.



BEAUMONT. Reluctantly returning. He has a large box.


		I do need to see Starling.


			
		Starling?


		Awhile back he ordered some bibles-
			
		-I've brought them.
			
		Is he here?


			
		Yes he is.


		Well, I need to speak to him.


			
		Let me deliver the bibles.



BEAUMONT. His eyes flick from one man to the other. It's over.


		Excellent show.
			
		Where is Starling?



PATTERSON. The jig is up. He gestures-


		Here he comes now.
			



HALF A DOZEN NATIVES CARRYING STARLING'S COFFIN. They start to put 
it on the train and as they do-



BEAUMONT. Stunned. And furious! He storms off the train and we-





as Beaumont sees it. Patterson and Samuel are with him.

Little more work has been done than the last time we saw it. A few 
men are working slowly.

And now there are guards with rifles patrolling it.



BEAUMONT. A deadly look at them. He storms off.





as Beaumont sees it- Patterson, Samuel, and Hawthorne stand 
quietly.

It's much more crowded than the last time. Still under control, 
but barely.

Beaumont is icy now. He gestures sharply toward Hawthrone to join 
them.





THE FOUR MEN speak low and fast-


		What in hell is going on?


		The Ghost and The Darkness have come.


			
		In English.


		It's what the natives are calling 
		the lions-
			
		-two lions have been causing trouble-


		-what's the surprise in that, this is
		Africa?


		It hasn't been that simple so far.


		What have they done besides kill
		Starling?
			
		How many have they killed?
			(Patterson nods for
			Hawthorne to answer)



HAWTHORNE. Doing his best.


		Well, of course, I can't supply a
		totally accurate answer because
		there are those that are actually
		authenticated and there are those
		that we once thought were workers
		killing each other or deserting
		from camp so any number I give is
		subject to error-


			
		How many?


		Thirty, I should think.


			
		Christ!
			
		What are you doing about it?
			





We are looking at a small railroad car in a deserted area. This is 
not near the track but off by itself, in an area surrounded by 
thorn trees.

Several workers are erecting a cloth tent to cover it, trying to 
disguise the fact that the small railroad car is, indeed, nothing 
but a small railroad car.

It is difficult work and they are perspiring heavily.



PATTERSON AND BEAUMONT looking at it.


		This is supposed to be salvation?
			
		What kind of idiocy are we dealing
		with here?


			
		I'm calling it my "contraption"-
		we're going to surround it with a
		boma- a fence, to you- and we're
		going to leave a small opening
		opposite that door.



THE RAILROAD CAR. There is, in fact, an open front door. Patterson 
gestures for Beaumont to follow him inside.



INSIDE THE CAR AS THEY ENTER. It has been divided in half by thick 
metal bars from floor to ceiling. The bars are close together, 
only a few inches between them.


		In that half will be bait- human
		bait- I'll start things off-
			(points to the open
			doorway)
		-a sliding door will fit above that
		and a trip wire will run across
		the floor.


			
		Genius- the beast will enter,
		tripping the wire, the door will
		slide down, trapping him, you, safe
		behind the bars, will have him at
		your mercy and will shoot him.

Patterson nods. Beaumont explodes.


		Are you running a high fever, man?
		How could you expect something as
		lunatic as this to succeed? How
		could you even conceive of it?


		I didn't conceive of it for the
		lions- I built one in India when
		there was trouble with a tiger.


			
		And it worked?


			
		In point of fact, it didn't.
			
		But I'm convinced the theory is
		sound.



THE TWO OF THEM. They move outside. The tension between them is 
considerable. Beaumont looks at Patterson for too long a moment.


		What?


		I made a mistake hiring you- 
		you're simply not up to the job.
			






		You genuinely enjoy trying to	
		terrify people, don't you? Well, 
		fine-
			
		-except there isn't a higher rated
		engineer and we both know that. And
		since time is so important to you,
		how long do you think it would take 
		to find someone else qualified and 
		bring him here?



BEAUMONT. Blazing.


		Let me explain about time- you've 
		been here three months and already 
		two months behind. And the Germans 
		and the French are gearing up. And 
		I don't care about you and I don't 
		care about the thirty dead- I care 
		about my knighthood and if this 
		railroad finishes on schedule, I'll 
		get my knighthood and I want it.
			(glancing around as
			Samuel appears, goes to
			the workers)
		Professional hunters may be the answer.


		All they'll bring is more chaos and
		we've plenty of that already- and if
		they come in, word will get out- and
		what happens to your knighthood then?


		I'm going to try and locate Redbeard-
		I assume you've heard of him.


		Every man who's ever fired a rifle has 
		heard of him- by the time you find him,
		the lions will be dead.


			
		Very well, the job's still yours, I'll 
		go. But if I have to return, you're
		finished. And I will then do everything
		I can to destroy your reputation. Am I
		not fair?
			
		Told you you'd hate me.
			



SAMUEL. Moving up to Patterson. Samuel has a bag.


			
		I do hate him.
			(takes the bag from
			Samuel, pulls out flares)
		I want you to distribute one bag of
		flares to every tent area-
			
		-tell the men to light them if
		there's trouble-
			
		-make it two bags.
			





A lamp burns alongside him. Across the bars, the door of the 
railroad car is open. Flickering shadows. Above the doorway is a 
thick wooden slab the size of the door. n the ground, barely 
visible, the trip wire.



THE DOORWAY. Outside, something is moving.



PATTERSON, rifle ready, holding his breath.



THE DOORWAY. SIlence. Nothing moves now.



PATTERSON. He rubs his eyes with his hands...



FLICKERING SHADOWS on the wall. It's later that night.



PATTERSON. The man is bleary with fatigue. He sits in a corner of 
the car, writing a letter.

				PATTERSON'S VOICE 
		"Dearest...
		...peace and tranquility continue to
		abound here- the workers report each
		day with a smile- except for your
		absence, this whole adventunre is
		providing me nothing but pleasure..."



THE FLICKERING WALLS OF THE RAILWAY CAR. It's later still. 
Patterson, finished writing, stares out at the night.



A FLARE, rising brightly toward the sky.



PATTERSON, seeing the flare. The man is miserable.





				PATTERSON'S VOICE 
		Fire.

The branch is destroyed, the flowers blown away.





THE COOLIES hold rifles. They look like brothers, which they are. 
They also look tough. And they are that, too. THREE 



			
		Very good indeed.


			
		We have hunted since childhood.


		All right- you'll spend your nights
		inside.
			(He indicates the railroad
			car. The Coolies nod)
		You'll have plenty of ammunition.
		You're totally protected, you have
		really nothing to fear.


		That is correct.
			
		Nothing.

Patterson looks at the three men. Obviously, he could not have 
chosen better. From them-





A lot of men working under Patterson. Progress is slow.





Some men sit on the part that's been built. Spending the night 
there for protection. Now, they all turn and we



ANOTHER FLARE going off in another part of camp.



PATTERSON, in a tree alone, in despair.





Tough as ever. Ready for anything. But nothing is happening. 
Silence.





STILL MORE MEN are moving into the river. They wade til the water 
is up to their necks. Then they reach out, hold hands, start to 
sing.



PATTERSON moving high into a tree. He listens to the sound. 
Lovely.



MOONLIGHT ON THE WATER. The men stand as before, singing softly. 
The river here is calm, no current to speak of. The men are safe-

-or rather they should be.



THE DARKNESS swimming softly, his great jaws silently encircling 
the neck of the last man in line, pulling him silently away and as 
the others start to scream-



PATTERSON, watching another flare rise, helplessly listening.





-one of them kicks wildly at the wind.

They should be nervous-

-The Ghost walks among them, chooses which one to kill, leaps on 
it, brings it to earth as the dust rises.









HAWTHORNE seems overwhelmed.





And for a moment we don't know what it is. There is a faint light 
and now we see what it is we're looking at: a wire.



And now a paw walks across it-

-and the instant that happens-



THE THREE COOLIES, the brothers, in the contraption, two of them 
asleep, a flickering lamp the only illumination in the railroad 
car and



THE DOOR OF THE RAILROAD CAR slamming loudly down and



THE DARKNESS, standing alone in one half of the railroad car- it's 
incredible, just incredible but Patterson's idea actually worked 
and



The entire of the car- the thick bars separating the two halves. 
In one half, the huge lion. In the other, the three armed, tough 
coolies.

For a moment, it could be a frozen tableau- both sides are too 
startled and surprised to do anything but stare-

-and then all hell just explodes as we



THE DARKNESS, and this incredible roar comes from his throat, the 
kind of roar that can be heard five miles away in the night but 
this one in the enclosed room sounds even louder and more 
terrifying and



THE DARKNESS, throwing his huge body at the bars and



THE BARS and both his front claws are slashing through and



THE THREE TOUGH COOLIES and they retreat against the rear wall of 
the car.



THE DARKNESS, rage building, throwing its body at the bars again 
and



THE COOLIES, pressed in fear against the far wall, unable to do 
anything but stare and



THE CLAWS, ripping at the air and



THE DARKNESS, leaping forward, smashing into the bars and



THE CEILING WHERE THE BARS are connected and the sheer power of 
his leap has made them jiggle just the least bit and



THE COOLIES, staring up at the ceiling and



THE DARKNESS, AND HERE HE COMES AGAIN, roaring and his body hits 
the bars and



THE CEILING- and the bars shake-

-but they're not giving way.



THE TOUGH COOLIES, as they begin to realize this and



THE DARKNESS, clawing for them and



THE DARKNESS, raging and roaring on his side of the bars and



THE FIRST COOLIE, raising his gun and



THE SECOND COOLIE, his gun raised too and



THE THIRD COOLIE and he's ready and





-and reload-

-and fire again, and reload, and-



THE RAILROAD CAR- and suddenly the lamp is knocked over-

-and a fire starts, flames grow and it's starting to look like 
hell in there-

-only it gets worse as we-



THE DARKNESS at the bars-

-and suddenly it stands up- it seems to fill the car, towering 
over everything, it's like a nightmare come to kill you-



THE COOLIES staring up at this giant thing, and of course they're 
more terrified now than they've ever been in their lives- but 
these are tough men and they ignore the flames, ignore the 
deafening roars of the beast and



THE DARKNESS, standing there, going crazy on his side of the bars, 
trying to knock them down but they're holding and



THE TOUGH COOLIES, reloading and



THE DARKNESS, racing around the enclosed area now and he's trapped 
and the flames make him seem like something unalive and his eyes 
have never been so bright, his roars as deafening and



THE THREE COOLIES, firing again and



THE DARKNESS, leaping at the bars again, and they shake, sure they 
shake, but they keep on holding and



THE COOLIES, firing, reloading, firing, reloading and as they do, 
something's starting to come clear-

-amazing as it may seem, impossible as it may be to conceive, 
they're missing.



THE DARKNESS, whirling on his side, roaring and leaping and



THE COOLIES and sure they fire, but they're still so goddam scared 
and



THE DOOR THAT SLID DOWN- it's held in place by some thick wooden 
bars-

-and now the Coolies start to hit something- the wooden bars 
because they begin to splinter and



THE DARKNESS, whirling, leaping at the bars and



THE COOLIES firing and then-



THE DOOR as it flops open and just like that-



THE DARKNESS. Out the door and gone. HOLD.





Patterson stands where The Darkness was. The three Coolies are 
where they spent the night, on the other side of the bars.

This was the lowest point yet for Patterson. Not only had his 
notion come so close to working, he could never fully comprehend 
how the coolies missed. It never seemed possible- but of course, 
it really happened.


		Not once?- you didn't hit it once?-


		-I would never make excuses- but a
		fire broke out- the light was bad- he
		kept moving-


		-well, of course he kept moving- but
		he couldn't have been more than ten
		feet away from the three of you- surely
		you must have wounded the thing-


		I assure you we came close many times-

Abdullah is in the doorway near Patterson now- with several dozen 
men. And from Abdullah's face, this is clearly going to be a 
confrontation.


		-the next time we will do better.
			(Patterson makes no
			reaction; moves outside)



ABDULLAH, simmering, moving straight to Patterson as soon as he's 
out.


		The next time will be as this time-
		The Devil has come to Tsavo-


			
		-that's ridiculous talk and you can't
		seriously believe it-


			(moving in- tension rising
			as others crowd behind him)
		-now you're telling me my beliefs?- I
		don't think so-



THE BUSH just beyond- something is moving- an animal?- Impossible 
to say.


		I wasn't and you know it and don't
		push it- just listen- we have a
		problem in Tsavo-


			
		-at last you're right- we do- you are
		the problem in Tsavo-


		-careful, Abdullah-

Patterson and Abdullah and suddenly it's dangerous.


		You do not tell me "careful"- you do
		not tell me anything- you listen
		while I talk-
			(Now suddenly a shadow
			seems to cross-)



ABDULLAH. CLOSE UP. His eyes widen.



AN ENORMOUS PISTOL. Pressed hard against Abdullah's temple.

				MAN'S VOICE 
		-change in plan- you listen while
		I talk- because you have a question
		that needs answering.
			
		Will I pull the trigger?





We are looking at one of those legends- ageless and powerful, with 
a tanned face and a thick grey beard. He has seen everything and 
is capable of anything.

Just now he seems more than capable of killing Abdullah. Very 
calmly, he cocks the pistol.

				SAMUEL 
		It's Redbeard, Abdullah- he'll kill
		you.


			
		No hints, Samuel.


			
		You don't know all that has happened
		here- the Devil has come to Tsavo.


		You're right. The Devil has come. Look
		at me. I am the Devil.



ABDULLAH, staring at Redbeard. Right now Redbeard just could be.


			
		I am a man of peace.


		Am I to take it you want to live?


		Most certainly. Absolutely. Yes.


		Excellent decision.
			(Now he suddenly reaches
			out, shakes Abdullah's hand)
		Your name is Abdullah? I'm sure we'll
		meet again. Go and enjoy the splendid
		morning.


			
		I think it's been a pleasure.



REDBEARD, and now he does another surprising thing: embraces 
Samuel.


			
		You got old.
			(Now he releases Samuel,
			turns to Patterson)
		I'm sure you're John Patterson.
			
		Stay out of my way.
			(And without another word,
			he's gone)





as Redbeard moves through, taking it all in. It's even worse than 
when we last saw it- bodies crammed everywhere and always the 
sound of pain and sickness.

Patterson stands in the doorway, watching, waiting.


			
		I didn't have a chance to thank you.


			
		What did I do?


		Got me out of trouble.


			
		Nonsense- Samuel would have done
		something.
			


		We need to talk.


		Let me save time-  you are the
		engineer;  you are in charge;
		 you're sorry I'm here. Right
		so far?
			
		Good- because  I am not an
		engineer,  I don't want to be
		in charge, and  I'm sorrier than
		you are that I'm here- I hate Tsavo.
		So I will help you by killing the
		lions and leaving, and you will help
		me by doing what I tell you so I
		can leave. See any problems?


		Actually, no.


		All right- let's go into battle.
			(suddenly taking
			Patterson's hand)
		I'm Redbeard.
			


		Somehow I guessed.
			





A BUNCH OF MEN WAIT. Hwathorne, Samuel, Abdullah, and perhaps a 
dozen other worker leaders. Redbeard and Patterson move to them.


		Starting now, we attack them.


		How; we don't know where they are?


		We'll have to make them come to us,
		won't we? And since there are two of
		them, we're going to set two plans
		in motion.
			
		First: we must move the entire
		hospital by tomorrow night.


			
		That's a terrible idea-


			
		-is it, I'm sorry, but then, of
		course, you're the doctor, you 
		should know.


		Silliest thing I ever heard of- why
		in the world should we go through
		all that?


			
		I suppose I could answer you. I
		suppose I could explain that the 
		place is so inviting, what with the 
		smell of blood and flesh, that they 
		have to strike. It's even possible 
		that I tell you I found some fresh 
		paw marks around back which means 
		they're already contemplating 
		feasting here.
			(Turning on Hawthorne
			now- his voice building)
		But I don't want to answer you 
		because when you question me you are 
		really saying that I don't have the 
		least idea what I am doing, that I am 
		nothing but an incompetent, that I am 
		a fool.
			
		Anyone who finds me a fool, please 
		say so now.


			
		I have been desperate for Patterson 
		to let me move the hospital since the 
		day he arrived.


			
		Then we agree.
			



It was a huge effort and they got half of it done that day- but 
there was always the sense of impending bloodshed.

What we see first are Patterson and a bunch of shots of a lot of 
workers- laying out the dimensions of the new boma that would 
surround the place. This was to be by far the biggest wall fence 
they had in Tsavo.

And now here comes Abdullah leading a crowd of men, wading into a 
huge patch of thorn trees, cutting the thick branches down, 
starting to load them for carrying-

-and it's high noon now, and Patterson drenched with sweat, leads 
the start of the actual building- taking the thorn branches, 
bunching them together, forcing them so there is no room between 
them-

-and we can just begin to get the sense of what the fence will be- 
except at the moment it's barely a foot high-

-and now Redbeard appears, beckons to Patterson, and





Patterson, Redbeard, and Samuel walk quickly.



SAMUEL turning to Redbeard and Patterson.


		Soon.
			


			
		I have to ask- why do you need me?


		I don't really. But understand
		something- even though it may take
		me two or three days to sort this
		out-
			(Patterson has to smile
			at the phrase)
		-when I'm gone, you'll still have
		to build the bridge. And I don't
		want the men to have lost respect
		for you.


			
		That's very considerate.


		I'm always considerate- my mother
		taught me that.



SAMUEL, who just breaks out laughing.


		Why do you laugh?- you don't
		believe she taught me?


		I don't believe you had a mother.
			(And as Redbeard
			laughs too-)



A MASAI VILLAGE as they approach. Redbeard walks ahead.


		You like him, don't you?


		Oh yes. But it takes time.


		You've known him long?


			
		Since his beard was red.





Redbeard, Patterson and Samuel stand near him. WOMEN and CHILDREN 
are there. Some of the children look at Redbeard, mime shooting, 
fall down dead. Samuel translates as necessary.


		How many cattle?


		Four should do it.


		They will want a lot of money.


			
		Have you got it?


		No, but you do-
			
		-see, you were needed after all.
			
		And fifty warriors at the camp
		before dawn.


			(Samuel explains. The
			Masai Chief replies.
			Translating)
		Why so many?


		Because I have two plans to kill
		the lions- one involving the cattle,
		the other the men.



REDBEARD AND PATTERSON watching as Samuel tells the Chief.



THE MASAI CHIEF. He moves toward Redbeard and Patterson. As he 
speaks, Samuel translates quietly. There is a sadness in the 
Chief's tone.


			
		The Ghost and the Darkness have
		come... and we can do nothing...
		but if you anger them... they will
		stay in Tsavo... and life will
		become more unberable, that I know...



PATTERSON, watching as Redbeard replies.


			
		Two lions are all that have come...
		they're only lions, that I know.
			
		And I will kill them both tomorrow.
			





We're not sure for a moment where we are but we can hear metallic 
sounds.

Now we hear voices.

				REDBEARD VOICE 
		I'll need you by me in the morning.

				SAMUEL VOICE 
		Whatever you wish.



WHERE WE ARE- IT'S PATTERSON'S TENT AREA. Patterson, Redbeard, 
Hawthorne, and Samuel sit around a fire.

THey are cleaning their guns, getting ready.

A WORD ABOUT THEIR WEAPONS. Patterson's is a good rifle and he 
cleans it expertly.

Redbeard's surprisingly, is the oldest. And the way his hands move 
as he assembles it, he might be bathing a child.

Hawthorne is the least skilled of the three. But his rifle is 
clearly the finest. Bigger than the others, with great killing 
power.

There is a tremendous tension- Patterson, Hawthorne, and Samuel 
show it. Redbeard is as before.


			
		You're certain about tomorrow?
			
		But you don't seem excited.
			


		You don't enjoy killing, do you?
			


		Then why do it?



REDBEARD. CLOSE UP. He stares at the fire. Then-


		I have a gift.



THE CAMPFIRE. Silence for a moment except for the sound of the 
weapons being reassembled. Redbeard's hands fly. His rifle is back 
together. He stands, nods, goes.



HAWTHORNE, watching him.


		Strange man.
			
		Has he always been this way?


		Much gentler now.


			
		John?-
			(He holds out his
			beautiful rifle)
		Change guns with me- mine's much
		more powerful. I'll be finishing
		the hospital tomorrow so I won't
		be with you- but if you'll use
		this...
			
		...then I will.

Patterson, touched, changes weapons.


		Thank you.
			
		Why does he need you by him?


		He doesn't. He needs nobody. But
		we have hunted many times...
			
		...he knows I am afraid of lions...







Misty- hard to see much.

Then GHOSTS appear-



-they're not ghosts, they're MASAI WARRIORS emerging from the 
mists. They are powerful and painted and they carry noisemaking 
equipment- tin cans and tom toms and as more and more of them 
materialize-





Redbeard, Patterson, and Samuel wait as the Warriors approach.


			
		I spotted one of them-
			(gesturing toward
			the thicket)
		-in there.



THE THICKET again- alive with thorn trees. Dark, filled with long 
dark shadows.



REDBEARD AND PATTERSON AND SAMUEL. A lot of tension.


		The best way to ensure the kill
		when you're using trackers is for
		one to shoot while the other uses
		the trackers to force the lion
		toward the shooter. Have you ever
		led trackers?


			
		I can try.


			
		Samuel says you killed a lion.


		It was probably luck- I'd rather
		you did the shooting.


		You'd never force the lion to me-
		and nobody ever got a lion with
		one shot by luck.
			(points- hand out
			straight)
		Around there's a clearing- you'll
		know it from the anthills- get
		there and hide and listen to the
		sounds- I'll make the lion come
		directly to you.
			(He gestures for
			Patterson to take
			off and as he does-)



THE WARRIORS as Redbeard goes to them-


			
		-all of you- spread the width of
		the clearing- no gaps- go-
			



THE WARRIORS, spreading apart.



THE SUN. Starting to appear more strongly on the horizon.



PATTERSON, running like hell.



THE WARRIORS, moving quickly, silently.







PATTERSON, ducking his head, blasting through.



THE WARRIORS, starting to cover the entire width of the thicket.



PATTERSON, quickstepping over rocky terrain.



SAMUEL staying close to Redbeard. The fear is there.



REDBEARD, studying the position of the Warriors, who are almost 
ready.



PATTERSON, circling now, racing toward a clearing, picking up 
speed.



THE WARRIORS, spread out. They look to Redbeard.



REDBEARD. Not yet.



PATTERSON, racing into the clearing, glances around- lots of 
anthills.



AN ANTHILL, eight feet high. It casts a long shadow.



PATTERSON. Holding Hawthorne's marvelous rifle, he slips silently 
into the shadow.

HOLD ON PATTERSON- it's almost as if he weren't there.



REDBEARD. CLOSE UP. Suddenly screaming and



SAMUEL, screaming too and



THE WHOLE LINE OF WARRIORS, suddenly moving forward, all of them 
shouting and screaming and pounding on their drums and it is loud.



PATTERSON in the shadow. The noise is faint- but he can hear it.



A DOZEN DRUMMERS, moving forward, banging away.



A DOZEN MORE DRUMMERS, even louder.



REDBEARD, moving forward, his eyes flicking ahead-



THE THICKET AHEAD. Nothing. No movement. No lion.



PATTERSON. Just the least bit louder now.



THE WHOLE LINE OF WARRIORS, screaming and pounding and



SAMUEL- the fear worse, dogging Redbeard's steps.



REDBEARD. His eyes flicking ahead.



THE THICKET AHEAD. Nothing. No movement. No lion.



PATTERSON. It's a lot louder now. He's totally still. And he's 
ready.



THE DENSEST PART OF THE THICKET we've seen yet.



THE WARRIORS, slashing their way through, drumming and shouting 
and



REDBEARD, at their head, eyes, as always, flicking.



THE THICKET AHEAD. Nothing. No movement. No lion.



REDBEARD- starting to suddenly get louder and point-

-because something is there-



THE THICKET AHEAD, and we didn't see it before, only Redbeard saw 
it before-

-but now something begins to move and



REDBEARD AND THE WARRIORS and it's all going crazy now, and 
they're starting to move faster and





The noise has kicked up and all the time it's coming closer and



REDBEARD AND THE WARRIORS and the movement up ahead is more 
distinct and the Warriors are almost in a frenzy as we



A FLASH OF THE GHOST IN THE THICKET- eyes bright- it starts to 
move away from the sound-

-and toward where Patterson is waiting.



REDBEARD. Faster, screaming louder and



SAMUEL and the fear starting to leave and he screams louder too 
and



PATTERSON- he fingers the weapon.



THE GHOST, angrily retreating faster from the sound- and now 
instead of going straight back it begins to veer left and



REDBEARD, immediately spotting the shift, gesturingto the Warriors 
to get left and



THE WARRIORS, shifting over as Redbeard directed, blocking The 
Ghost's intended path and



THE GHOST, shifting, trying to go the other way this time and



REDBEARD; he spots that too, gestures for the Warriors to shift 
the other way and



THE WARRIORS, racing to thier new positions, blocking the animal's 
path again and



THE GHOST, rattled, upset, and now it starts retreating back in 
the original direction- toward Patterson and



REDBEARD AND THE WHOLE LONG LINE OF MEN, and it's as if mass 
hysteria has gripped them, because their sound keeps building and 
sure, their throats must ache and yes, their arms must tire, but 
you couldn't tell that from what they're doing-



PATTERSON. Waiting by the anthill. Waiting. Then, at last-



THE GHOST, backing into view, staring back at the sound, unaware 
of Patterson's existence behind him.



PATTERSON. Noiselessly he steps away from the anthill into the 
sunlight. He raises Hawthorne's gun.



THE GHOST, backing toward Patterson.



PATTERSON, sighting along the glistening barrel.



THE GHOST, starting to turn.



PATTERSON, ready to fire.



THE GHOST IN CLOSE UP, CAUGHT IN THE CROSSHAIRS OF THE RIFLE. And 
now its lips go back as it sees Patterson.



PATTERSON, CLOSE UP, and this is it, this is the moment and as he 
squeezes the trigger-



PATTERSON AND THE GHOST, and a totally unexpected sound- a dull 
snap- Hawthorne's rifle has misfired.



THE GHOST, unharmed and



PATTERSON desperately workingthe rifle, trying to make it function 
and



THE GHOST. It stares at Patterson.



PATTERSON, and the goddamn gun won't work and he's a dead man and





-and for a moment, they might be frozen in some horrible tableau-





REDBEARD as he hears it, breaking into a wild run-


		Shoot for chrissakes!-



PATTERSON standing his ground as now THE GHOST takes a step toward 
him.



REDBEARD, firing, reloading on the move, and up ahead is the 
clearing and as he reaches it-



THE GHOST. Its great head turns in the direction of Redbeard and



REDBEARD's position- anthills block him from getting a clear shot 
at the animal- he curses, races for a better position and



THE GHOST. One final stare at Patterson-

-then it makes an effortless leap intothe thicket-

-and it's safe and free and gone.



PATTERSON. CLOSE UP. Rocked.

The low point of his life.



SAMUEL, catching up to Redbeard.


		Did you ever see a lion that size?


		Not even close.
			(Now he moves to
			Patterson)
		What happened?


			
		...misfire... it jammed...


		Has it ever done that before?


		...don't know...


		It's Hawthorne's.



REDBEARD. Trying for control.


		You exchanged weapons?
			
		You went into battle with an
		untried gun?
			



REDBEARD. CLOSE UP. For a moment it's impossible to tell what he's 
going to do. It seems that a Homeric burst of fury is about to 
happen.



PATTERSON. Drained, he epects it. It's very quiet.



REEDBEARD, studying the younger man. And when he finally speaks, 
his voice is surprisingly quiet.


		They have an expression in
		prizefighting: "everyone has a plan
		until they're hit."
			
		You've just been hit...
			
		...the getting up is up to you...
			(And he turns, moves
			off and)





Nearly finished. The fence is eight feet high and Hawthorne is 
supervising men and material that are being transferred.



REDBEARD, checking security in the New Hospital which is close to 
the center of camp. (The Old Hospital was situated on the 
outskirts, because they wanted to keep the workers away from the 
sick and the wounded.) Late afternoon, now.

Patterson, Samuel and Hawthorne are moving with him. As are TWO 
EXPERIENCED ORDERLIES, both armed with powerful rifles. Patterson 
is silent here, the effects of the misfire still evident on his 
face.


			
		Gentlemen, there's no sickness smell
		at all here, and little blood. When
		we leave, close the gate securely,
		don't open it til morning and keep
		your fires high. Any questions, ask
		them now.
			(They understand- now
			to Samuel and Hawthorne)
		You two will sleep beautifully in
		your tents.
			
		And stay there.


		And where will you sleep beautifully?


			
		Patterson and I will be in the old
		hospital- where the enticing smell
		of sickness still lingers-
			
		-and by the time we're done, I
		promise you, the odor of blood will
		be irresistible.
			





Redbeard and Patterson have buckets which they empty around the 
inside perimeter-

-buckets of blood.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD. Darker. They empty still more full buckets 
of blood. Redbeard seems pleased.



SAMUEL AND HAWTHORNE, hurrying toward their camp.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, leading Masai cattle into the grounds of 
the Old Hospital.



THE ORDERLIES IN THE NEW HOSPITAL, firmly closing and locking the 
gate.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, just outside the fence of the Old 
Hospital- they carry many large chunks of raw meat, drop them as 
they move.



THE SUN. Dying... dying...



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD. They slip inside the deserted Old 
Hospital, pull the gate securely shut.



THE CATTLE. They stand in the center of the Old Hospital, calling 
to each other.



THE NEW HOSPITAL. Full. Clean. The men are exhausted. Most are 
already asleep. The Orderlies sit by a fire, alert for anything.



THE OLD HOSPITAL. Patterson and Redbeard stand across from their 
fire, waiting. The cows are quiet.



HAWTHORNE by his fire near his tent with Samuel. Nervously, they 
drink tea.



THE MOON. Higher. An hour has passed. Perhaps more.



REDBEARD. Walking the fence perimeter.



PATTERSON. The cows are edgy. He calms the cows.



OUTSIDE THE OLD HOSPITAL. The large chunks of meat are visible in 
the moonlight.



THE NEW HOSPITAL. The orderlies are calm.



REDBEARD, still walking the perimeter.



PATTERSON sitting by the fire, staring at the night. Redbeard 
moves to him, speaks in a whisper.


		Think about something else.


		Have you ever failed?


			
		Only in life...
			(He walks away.
			Patterson watches.)



THE NEW HOSPITAL. The Orderlies tend the sick. Quietly.



THE NIGHT AND THE MOON. Lovely.



REDBEARD. Stalking the perimeter. No sound. The night is deadly 
quiet.



PATTERSON. He stalks the perimeter now too, on the far side from 
Redbeard- and suddenly a different and frightening sound- the 
ripping of flesh-



Now we can see both Patterson inside and also outside where, in 
shadow, The Ghost and The Darkness are devouring a hunk of meat.

Redbeard moves quickly across the perimeter, gestures for 
Patterson to switch positions with him.

As he reaches where Patterson was, the eating sound stops.

Silence again.

Patterson reaches the far side of the fence.

Now the eating sound comes again, and again, BOTH LIONS are 
outside, directly across from Patterson.



REDBEARD looks across the perimeter at Patterson. Whatever's going 
on, it's sure as hell odd.



THE CATTLE- they are very upset suddenly- one of them kicks out 
violently against the night- the same gesture the cattle did just 
before The Ghost walked through their pen and killed one-

-now a different sound is heard: scratching-



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD tracking the sound-

-the main gate is starting to be pushed in. Inside the gate the 
ground is covered with blood stains from where they emptied their 
buckets.



THE GATE. More pressure against it- it could give way any moment.



REDBEARD AND PATTERSON and from the look on Redbeard's face, this 
is it! Patterson seees this, readies his rifle and we-



THE CATTLE, going nuts and then-



THE GATE. All pressure gone.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD. Patterson is furious.


		Goddammit!


		It's all right. Stay ready.
			
		They know it's there.

Patterson takes a few steps away, stares at the moon.



REDBEARD; he studies Patterson who so clearly craves redemption.


			
		Meant to ask you- the railroad car
		trap. Your idea?
			
		Excellent notion- I used the same
		device myself once.


		But of course yours worked.


		In point of fact it didn't- but I'm
		convinced the idea is sound.

He goes back to walking the perimeter. Patterson watches him- and 
for the first time since the misfire, Patterson's mood begins to 
lift.





and an ORDERLY, blood pouring from his throat as he lies by the 
fire and



THE SECOND ORDERLY rounding a corner, seeing the violence; before 
he can scream-



THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS suddenly beside him, and their giant 
paws slap out so fast we can't follow and



THE SECOND ORDERLY, dropping to the ground, and now we're starting 
to spin into madness and these next cuts go like lightning.



A TENT FULL OF SICK MEN with malaria and



A PAW flashing and



THE DARKNESS, lips pulling back and



A SICK MAN, falling from his bed, blood pouring from his slashed 
face and



TWO MORE SICK MEN, trying to rise and



THE GHOST, leaping on them and



THE DARKNESS, eyes narrow and brilliant and



A SICK COOLIE, and he's terrified and he tries to scream-

-the sound barely escapes him, but even so, it's the first cry 
we've heard and






-but the New Hospital is on the other end, a good distance away.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, rifles ready- but no sound reaches them.



HAWTHORNE, out of his tent, because he's close by and he heard it 
and he lights a torch, starts for the gate of the camp as Samuel 
does his best to stop him-

-but Hawthorne rips free and we



A SECOND TENT, as it starts to collapse and



THE MEDICINE TENT, as The Ghost and The Darkness enter and



MEDICINE, flying across the tent and



GLASS, shattering and more medicine is destroyed and



A BLIZZARD OF CUTS, of lions' claws and lions' teeth and those 
terrible bright blazing eyes and



A TENT POLE, being pulled out of the ground and



THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS and what they are doing is this: 
destroying the New Hospital and



MORE TENTS collapsing and



THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS. CLOSE UP. Eyes crazed.



HAWTHORNE ALONE IN THE NIGHT, scared shitless as he runs.



SHADOWS, moving, as Hawthorne's torch lights the surroundings and



HAWTHORNE, heart pounding, looking around and then he gasps as we



THE AREA NEARBY- TWO LARGE EYES are staring at him.



HAWTHORNE, panicked, stumbling, falling, getting up, staring 
around-



THE AREA AROUND HIM- the eys are gone-

-and now there are loud shrieks in the night coming from the New 
Hospital and the instant they are heard



REDBEARD AND PATTERSON, grabbing torches, throwing the gate open 
and they're off as we



HAWTHORNE, running toward the New Hospital just up ahead now.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, tearing through the night.



THE NEW HOSPITAL.  
The tents are all down. The place is devastated.



INSIDE THE FIRST TENT. Filled with the dead and the dying.



HAWTHORNE. Ashen. Moving on.





Dead. Blood. Pain.



More dead.

More dying.

It's a slaughterhouse.



HAWTHORNE. He's crushed. His body sags. He takes a breath, his 
last.

THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS are on him, roaring.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD as the roar reverberates- they glance at 
each other-

-then they slow.

Because the New Hospital has come into view.



REDBEARD, CLOSE UP, staring at the disaster.

And this terrible crosses his face. For a moment, you think he's 
going to fall. His body seems drained of all its power. He stands 
there. Just stands there. Unable to move.



PATTERSON. And he does move. Slowly. Carefully. Into the chaos.

He stares around- the dead and the dying are everywhere. 
Hawthorne, his face clawed almost unrecognizably, lies alone.

All that's left now is this: the sound of pain.



Dust rises. It covers everything. Only the sound remains.

Now different sounds take over-

-an incredible babble of human voices.



Patterson walks through the dust. Samuel, a worried look on his 
face, is a few steps behind.

We are at the STATION AREA and it is jammed. A train has pulled 
into the station-

-only you almost can't tell it's a train: all you can see are 
workers climbing up, and the inside is full so the workers clamber 
up onto the roofs of the cars-

-covering the cars-

-everyone is leaving-

-Patterson can only watch.

Abdullah stands on one of the cars-

-the train begins to pull out of the station.

More and more workers chase after it, get pulled on.

Now the station area is empty, the flat car roofs full.

Patterson still watches, eyes vacant.

Abdullah sees him, looks away.

The train gathers speed.

Rounds a corner...

...gone...

Patterson turns from the scene, begins to walk. Samuel stays close 
behind him, the worried look still there.





A FEW AFRICAN ORDERLIES do the best they can. Patterson watches 
only a moment, walks on. Samuel still behind him.



THE CAMP as Patterson walks through. A ghost town now. Only 
Africans remain.



THE CONTRAPTION where the coolies missed The Darkness. Patterson 
looks at it a moment, walks on.



THE ANTHILL IN THE CLEARING where Patterson misfired. Patterson 
looks at it a moment, walks on. And now, at last-



PATTERSON'S TENT AREA. One or two Africans. Samuel darts into his 
tent, emerges with something, holds it out to Patterson.



Patterson makes an almost courtly bow of thanks, puts it on- he 
never takes it off again. He walks on alone now until at last-





It stops abruptly, halfway done; the foundations are in place, a 
lot of the scaffolding, but it's useless. Late afternoon. 
Desolate.

Redbeard sits alone, high on one of the foundations. He looks as 
he did the night before.

Patterson walks to the top of the near embankment. He is unshaven, 
wrinkled, he fingers the lion claw necklace.

For a moment, neither says a word. Then-


			
		It would have been a beautiful 
		bridge, John. I never noticed 
		before, occupied with other 
		business, I	suppose...
			
		...never really pay much attention
		to that kind of thing but I've had
		the time today, nothing else on,
		and this... it's graceful and the
		placement couldn't be prettier...
		and...
			(He goes silent now,
			stares off)


		You just got hit.
			
		The getting up is up to you- but
		they're only lions-
			
		-and I'm going after them crack
		of dawn...
			





-we haven't seen anything like it before- it's hundreds of feet 
tall- gorgeous early morning light.

As we watch, we realize there are two dots on the side of the 
cliff.

As we watch a moment more, we realize the dots are moving.



THE DOTS are Patterson and Redbeard, working their way along the 
rock face. Patterson is much more nimble. It's dangerous, of 
course, but neither of them seems to have that uppermost in mind. 
They travel lightly- small knapsacks and their weapons.



THE TWO OF THEM as they make it over the cliff face. They stand, 
stare out.



WHAT THEY SEE: the world. They move on.



A RAVINE. They are moving along the edge. It's tricky going- if 
you fell you wouldn't much like it. They are both concentrating on 
their movements, paying no attention to each other as Redbeard 
starts to speak. They don't stop moving.


		In my town, when I was little,
		there was a brute, a bully who
		terrorized the place.
			
		But he was not the problem. He
		had a brother who was worse than
		he. But the brother was not the
		problem.
			
		One or the other of them was
		usually in jail. The problem came
		when they were both free togther.
		The two became different from
		either alone.
			
		Alone they were only brutes.
		Together they became lethal,
		together they killed.


		What happened to them?


			
		I got big.
			



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD working their way up a steep ravine. It's 
hard going. They help each other.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, moving along the edge of the ravine now. 
Slow. Silent. Redbeard stops, points-



A TANGLE IN THE BUSHES AND THORNS with one odd thing about it: 
there is a clearly defined archway, as if a buffalo or rhino used 
it as a regular passage.



THE TWO OF THEM at the archway. They look at each other, without a 
word move through it.



THE OTHER SIDE. A small clearing. And at the end of the clearing: 
a cave.



THE CAVE MOUTH. Dark.



REDBEARD AND PATTERSON. They each check their guns, move toward 
it.



THE CAVE MOUTH. Closer. Suddenly it's getting eerie.



REDBEARD, moving slowly, Patterson right with him.



THE CAVE MOUTH. They're by it- Redbeard squints inside.



WHAT HE SEES: it's dark and dangerous and there is a long low 
tunnel you have to half-crawl through.

Without a word, they start inside.



REDBEARD AND PATTERSON, crouched low, moving through the tunnel. 
Ahead there is light. They move on.



THE END OF THE TUNNEL- they can see the cave beyond.



REDBEARD AND PATTERSON. They glance down. Nothing much there- just 
a copper bracelet, the kind a native might wear.

Now they move past it and as the tunnel ends, they stand up.







PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, moving deeper into the cave. It's scary- 
dark with shafts of light coming from cracks in the rock. It's 
dank. It all feels as at any moment, the world could end.



REDBEARD. CLOSE UP. Thunderstruck-


		Dear God-
			



THE FLOOR OF THE CAVE. More copper bracelets. And still more-

-and now bones-

-the floor of the place is littered with human bones-

-eyeless skulls peer up at them from all around.



The rest of the cave. We are looking at a carpet of bones.


		Their den?
			
		Have you ever seen anything like
		this?


		Nobody's seen anything like this.
		Lions don't have caves like this-
			
		-they're doing it for pleasure.



SEVERAL TUNNELS, dark and ominous, leading from the cave-

-and now there is a sound from one of the tunnels-

-something is coming close and coming fast and



REDBEARD AND PATTERSON as Redbeard fires into the tunnel and the 
sound explodes-





-shrieks-



REDBEARD AND PATTERSON. What the hell is it?



THE TUNNEL- and here they come, screeching and angry-

-bats-

-swarms of them- hundreds of them-



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, diving to the ground, lying there amidst 
the bangles and the bones and the skulls-



THE BATS. Circling above them. Screeching louder.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, lying very still, eyeless skulls all 
around, staring.



THE BATS. For a moment, it seems as if they might attack.



PATTRSON AND REDBEARD. Waiting, waiting. Then-



THE BATS  back into the tunnel and



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, scrambling to their feet.


		One of my chief attributes is that
		I'm always calm.

And then without warning, from behind them, a roar-



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD spin around, start back toward the entrance 
of the cave-



THE LOW ENTRANCE TUNNEL as they scramble half-crawling through it.



OUTSIDE as they make it, stand straight, look around-



THICK BUSH beyond- another roar and sudden movement and



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, entering the thick bush- but carefully, 
because they are vulnerable now and an attack could come from 
anywhere- there is the sound of water-

-slashes of light hit their eyes, making it hard to see- and 
they're totally vulnerable now but it doesn't stop them- the water 
sound gets stronger- and as they burst clear-








PATTERSON AND REDBEARD. They look around. Nothing is there. But 
the spot is wide open, exposed.


			
		Where could it have gone? How
		could it get across the water?
			
		They're only lions, yes?


			(shakes his head; he
			doesn't know)
		Don't they have to be?...

They look around a moment more. Nothing to see-

-they turn, leave, re-enter the thick bush. And now-



THE DARKNESS- who knows where it is but it's there-

-watching Patterson.

HOLD BRIEFLY on The Darkness, then-





-outside the fence a dreadful sound- the crunching of bones.

Patterson, Redbeard, and Samuel emerge from tents, listen. 
Patterson is on one side of the area, Redbeard and Samuel on the 
other.


			
		Both of them over there.

He is pointing to Patterson's area. Patterson goes to Redbeard.


		Ever have to use a machan?
			
		I did once. In India. We will 
		tonight.
			





Patterson leads the few remaining men in constructing an odd 
looking structure: four slender poles lashed together, slanting 
inward with a plank tied on top, a dozen feet up in the air. 
Redbeard and Samuel approach.


		They're used to people in trees,
		not in a clearing.
			
		It may be tight.


		Not for me- I'm too bulky and it's
		your idea, you go up there.
			
		Take the others to the water tower
		for the night.


		I'll be bait alone?


		Yes. And I'll be in some distant
		tree where I can provide no
		assistance whatsoever.
			
		Can you control your fear?


		I'll have to.


		I can't control mine- I'd be lost
		without the shame factor driving me.


		Was that supposed to make me feel
		better?
			(Redbeard doesn't
			reply. Now-)





THE MEN start to tie it down, across the clearing from the machan.

Patterson takes a long look at the machan. He tests the support 
poles- they're rickety.



DUSK. The sun quickly beginning its quick fall.



THE WATER TOWER IN THE STATION AREA. Samuel is with the remaining 
men who clamber up to the platform on top.



THE DONKEY IN THE CLEARING. Quiet.



Redbeard, holding a wooden ladder that is propped against the 
plank. Patterson climbs his slow way up. It's dangerous.



THE PLANK as Patterson makes it, clambers off the ladder, manages 
to sit.



THE VIEW. Nothing is around the machan. He is totally vulnerable.



REDBEARD, taking the ladder down. Patterson tries to get 
comfortable. He can't.


			
		It's certainly the best chance
		they've had to kill you.


		You think they'll come then?
			
		Why?


			
		Good luck.


		Why?


			
		Because I think they're after you.



PATTERSON. This registers. Finally, he nods. Redbeard starts to 
leave.


		How many do you think they've 
		killed?


			
		The most of any lions... a 
		hundred...?
			
		Probably more.
			(Now Redbeard looks
			up at the younger man)
		Johnny...?

They study each other in the gathering darkness. They've been 
through a lot together, these two. They're not what they were when 
they first met. An emotional moment clearly is at hand.


		Don't fuck up.
			(And he turns, never
			looks back, just goes)



PATTERSON. He is alone now.



SHADOWS. Growing longer.



SAMUEL. On top of the water tower. The remaining men are with him.



THE DONKEY. It peers around.



PATTERSON. His fingers move slowly along his rifle barrel-

-there is no noise- but you have the sense that, at any second, 
the world could explode.



THE EDGE OF THE CLEARING, a good distance away. A bunch of trees. 
Nothing unusual.



Redbeard, motionless, rifle in hand, is high in the branches.



THE SUN. About to die.



PATTERSON, trying to get comfortable. It's not possible.



THE DONKEY, tethered, but able to move.



PATTERSON, testing the machan- not a good idea- it trembles. He 
stops, stares out at the setting sun, the light hitting his skin, 
giving it color.



THE SUN and here's the thing about Africa- the sun doesn't just 
set, it literally drops out of the sky. Suddenly it's bright and 
in a blink it isn't. As it drops-



PATTERSON. CLOSE UP. It's madness that he's up here. And he knows 
it. And that shows.



THE SKY. No moon. Just thick cloud.



THE DONKEY. Quiet.



PATTERSON. On his precarious perch. He scans constantly ahead of 
him past the donkey.



THE THICK BUSH BEYOND THE DONKEY. Nothing moves-



PATTERSON. He swallows, moistening his throat. He stares down at 
the donkey.





And now, just the beginning of a mist.








PATTERSON sitting there twelve feet up as the silence extends, 
listening for something, anything-

-but all there is is silence.



THE DONKEY. It lies still and quiet.



PATTERSON, looking around- you get the feeling he'd like to 
scream.



THE BUSHES AROUND HIM. The mist is getting stronger.



REDBEARD in his tree, cursing, trying to see through the growing 
mist.



PATTERSON, listening, listening-

-and then there is a sound and it's so quiet you can barely hear 
it but to Patterson it might as well be thunder-

-from behind the donkey there has come this: the snapping of a 
twig.



THE DONKEY, and it's eyes widen-



Because now something happens that hasn't happened before: 
suddenly there are no colors, only tones-

-because lions can't see colors, only tones, and that's what's 
happening- we are looking at the donkey from the point of view of 
the lion-



THE EYES OF THE GHOST. Watching the donkey.

And from now on, when we are using PATTERSON'S POINT OF VIEW, 
everything is clouded and thick with mist, and sounds are muted.

When we are using THE GHOST'S POINT OF VIEW, everything is totally 
clear- and sounds are thunderous.



WHAT PATTERSON SEES: just mist and vaguely, bushes.



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: The donkey. And CAMERA begins to move closer 
as The Ghost moves, just the barest few steps closer.



PATTERSON. Still no sound- but beyond the donkey there seems to be 
some movement in the bushes.



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: The donkey, very, very close-



PATTERSON. Squinting desperately at the area beyond the donkey but 
the mist is so thick, he can't make certain of anything.







Now there is something else visible, something behind the donkey: 
the four legs of the platform.



Now we travel up the platform- the four legs grow closer together.









PATTERSON. Involuntarily, a shiver.



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: PATTERSON, but the angle shifts-

-what's happening of course is this: The Ghost is circling around 
the platform in the safety of the bushes and the mist.



PATTERSON, following the whispered sound of the bushes moving. He 
half turns the other way quickly, making sure that nothing is 
behind him.



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: PATTERSON shifting as the angle continues to 
change.



PATTERSON as the realization hits: the beast doesn't care about 
the donkey anymore, it's stalking him.



REDBEARD. In the tree. The mist obscures everything.



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: PATTERSON. Still circling, still closer.



PATTERSON, and it's scary now, this thing circling and circling, 
always closer, never visible and his throat is dry and you know 
he's just dying to blast it with his weapon or scream for it to do 
anything but this constantly circling movement. (In truth, the 
lion circled him for two hours, always coming closer, never quite 
seen.)



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: PATTERSON, always the circling around.



PATTERSON, trying to turn on his shaky plank, trying to never to 
let the animal's position out of his sight.



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: PATTERSON. Closer...



PATTERSON, staring, staring at the goddamn mist, about to come 
apart now with the tension as it builds and builds and builds and



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: PATTERSON. Closer.



PATTERSON, gripping his weapon tightly as his head keeps on 
turning.



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: PATTERSON. Closer.



PATTERSON, suddenly yelling out loud as an owl lands on him- 
that's right, a goddamn owl landed on him, thinking he was a tree, 
almost knocking him off the plank and



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: PATTERSON, starting to slip off the platform 
and



PATTERSON, fighting the owl away, but his balance is going and 
he's trying not to fall and



WHAT THE GHOST SEES: PATTERSON, beginning to topple off and



PATTERSON, helpless, balance going, going-



THE GHOST, starting to charge forward and Christ he can move and 
as he starts his leap-



REDBEARD, racing from the tree to the edge of the clearing, firing 
his rifle, firing again and



THE GHOST, as this incredible roar comes from him, and he spins, 
lands, and sure, he's been hit but he's gone, back into the bushes 
and the night has him and



SUDDEN DAWN AND PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, running, stopping, staring 
at the ground-



THE GROUND. Blood.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD, moving quickly forward again-



THE GROUND. More blood and...



THE TWO OF THEM, starting to slow-



STRANGE TERRAIN- huge anthills all over, the tallest we've seen, 
some of them fifteen feet high, some even higher.



PATTERSON AND REDBEARD. They separate, take different paths 
through the anthills.



REDBEARD. Alert. One step at a time.



PATTERSON. The same. One step at at time.



THE GHOST. Crouched high up behind one of the biggest anthills, 
staring down at them both.



REDBEARD. He gestures for them to stop. They do. For a moment they 
might be statues.



THE ROCKY GROUND. Spots of blood. Redbeard kneels to examine them 
and as he does-



THE GHOST, launched in mid-air and



PATTERSON, whirling, falling, firing and as the sound detonates-



THE GHOST, in mid-air, body twisted and-

-and FREEZE.

Freeze on The Ghost silhouetted against the morning sky.

HOLD. THen-





-we're by the river and this is a repeat of the earlier moment 
when the three men brought the old man-eater into camp-

-only now eight men appear, carrying The Ghost- eight is the 
actual number of men that it took, and as they lower the dead 
animal to the ground-



THE GHOST- and now there's a flash of light as we



BEAUMONT, kneeling by the dead animal. He is smiling beautifully, 
and there is no questioning the look of triumph on his face.



A PHOTOGRAPHER; loads of bulky equipment. Patterson and Redbeard 
stand behind him, watching him. We're in a lovely spot by the 
river. Patterson and Redbeard have definitely been drinking.


		I think another for posterity-
		this is an important moment in
		my life.

He strikes another pose- the Photographer goes to work.


		Understand, I had help-


		-not a time for modesty, Bob-


		-undeniably your triumph.


		Oh surely there's enough credit
		for us all- let's not forget, you
		did the actual shooting. Of course,
		I hired you, I was the general who
		put the team together. And generals
		are the ones who tend to be
		remembered.


		Perhaps you might put your head in
		its mouth, sir- could be a corker.


		Clever idea, I like it.



THE MOUTH OF THE GHOST- it is huge-

-Beaumont manages to get it open- puts his head between the 
enormous set of teeth- he's nervous, tries to hide it when we



REDBEARD suddenly giving a loud imitation of a lion roaring and



BEAUMONT, surprised and frightened-

-he jerks his head away-

-there is the sound of laughter, Patterson's and Redbeard's-

-Beaumont tries for his smile, can't bring it off, looks around, 
humiliated, and as the laughter builds-





Patterson and Redbeard flank a fire. It's a sweet moment for them, 
their first, no fear in the vicinity.

It should be noted that they both are drinking from bottles of 
champagne.

It should also be noted that the Patterson we see is a world away 
from the young man who went to meet Beaumont. He's unshaven, his 
eyes have seen terrible things, he is weary, he has known failure- 
he is more at ease with the world.


			
		I never thought I'd say this, but
		I'm glad you came.


			
		Understood- you realize now you
		could never have done it without
		me.


		Actually, I could have done it
		much more easily without you, but
		for whatever reason, I'm glad you
		came.
			

Samuel, with his own bottle of champagne has wandered over, joins 
them.


			
		Where do you go next?


		Some Russian princes want to hunt
		the Himalayas. You?


		Help finish the railroad.


		I want to meet my son- he must be
		what, two months old?

They look at the fire a moment. Then-


		Three years I've worked for the
		railroad. Now I don't know why. It
		seemed a good idea once.


		I feel the same about the bridge.
		This country certainly didn't ask
		for it, doesn't need it.


		Too soon to tell.

They look at him.


		My life was shaped because someone
		invented gunpowder. Our lives have
		crossed because two lions went mad.
		But what if in the future the three
		of us do something grand for
		humanity? Was that worth all the
		lives? Too soon to tell.


			
		Some mysteries should not have 
		solutions.


			(finishes his bottle,
			rises, looks at Patterson)
		Hold your son high.
			(And he turns, goes
			to his tent)


			
		He has children?


			
		Once...
			(HOLD on the two
			in the firelight. Then-)






				FEMALE VOICE 
		I'd like to see John Patterson,
		please.
			



HELENA standing there in Tsavo; she looks weary from travel, but 
still lovely. She holds their son in her arms. The kid is 
adorable.


		Could you tell him that his wife-
			
		-that his family has come to see him.
			



PATTERSON AT THE BRIDGE- Samuel hurries to him with the news- 
Patterson takes off running and



TSAVO STATION and Helena; she holds the sleeping child, walks back 
and forth along the shaded front of the building, no sound at all 
but her heels.



PATTERSON, running like crazy and up ahead now is the station 
area.



HELENA- and now, in the distance, she sees him and she leaves the 
building, walks out into the open, smiling and waving excitedly 
and



PATTERSON, excitedly waving back and



THE DARKNESS, moving out of the grassy area behind Helena and



PATTERSON, suddenly screaming "Get back- back-"



HELENA, and she's too far away- his words are lost on the wind- 
she smiles again, waves again and



PATTERSON, screaming now, all he has, "GET BACK" and



HELENA, and she still can't make out what he's saying but just the 
same, she stops and



THE DARKNESS, stalking silently, closing on the mother and child.



HELENA, and the baby wakes, smiles and



THE DARKNESS, starting to run and



PATTERSON and now it shows on his face- he's not going to get 
there, he's never going to get there-



HELENA, and at last she knows something is terribly wrong and she 
turns-

-but too late, too late as we



THE DARKNESS, flying toward her now and



PATTERSON, in agony.



THE DARKNESS, leaping on them, taking them to the ground and as 
Helena cries out helplessly-



PATTERSON, crying out helplessly and





continuing to cry out until he realized the nightmare he just had 
is over-

-he staggers to his tent opening, goes outside.



OUTSIDE. It's dawn. Patterson, shaken, tries to rid himself of the 
dream. He looks around.

Redbeard's tent is ripped- Patterson runs to it-



INSIDE THE TENT. It's empty. Patterson stares around-

-there is blood on the tent floor and quickly-







PATTERSON running wildly, rifle in hand and



SAMUEL, carrying a weapon, hurrying to keep up and



PATTERSON, flying across rough terrain and as he and Samuel splash 
across a small river, he gestures for them to split and they do, 
widening the area of search and



SAMUEL, veering off and



THORN TREES, as Patterson rips through them, unmindful of the 
damage to his clothes or his skin and



MORE THORNS- he plunges wildly ahead and



A LARGE ANTHILL- it seems to be casting an unusual shadow- 
Patterson slows, rifle ready, takes a breath, moves around it-

-nothing at all- just his imagination which has been working 
overtime and is only getting worse-

Patterson stands there a moment, unsure where to go, what to do-

-and then SAMUEL'S VOICE on the wind- calling to him-



PATTERSON, tracking the sound- Samuel's voice cries out again, 
louder-

-Patterson starts to run and run, and as he rounds a bend-



A FIELD OF WHITE GRASS. So lovely.

With one patch in the middle that is blood red.

Something is moving in the blood red area.

Patterson has his rifle ready-

-and then Samuel rises from the blood red patch.



SAMUEL. In shock, in despair, call it what you want- he has seen 
something beyond imagination.



PATTERSON, rushing across the field of white grass, rushing to 
where Samuel stands in the patch of blood red grass- he looks down 
into the grass-

-clearly, Redbeard is there and clearly he is dead. Patterson and 
Samuel stare mute at one another-

-and now, from frighteningly near them, comes the triumphant roar 
of The Darkness. They don't even react.





We should already have a sense of where we are; we've done this 
before.



Samuel stands there, trying to hold it together.



Patterson stands there too, trying to hold it together.



REDBEARD'S FUNERAL PYRE. Flames consume the body.

Just Patterson and Samuel. No one else is there.

The flames lick at the sky...










PATTERSON AND SAMUEL, both armed, climbing the crane tower in use 
at the bridge, not far from the baboon.


		You're positive lions hate baboons?
			
		Pebbles?
			
		Let's get it over with.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL as they reach the crane tower platform, 
fifteen feet from the baboon.

They help each other into position. Almost night.



THE LARGE BABOON, baring its enormous teeth, shrieking out into 
the darkness.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL on the platform. Samuel tosses a pebble 
toward the baboon and the baboon cries out again, not in pain but 
irritation-






They're both tired. Samuel throws another pebble. The baboon cries 
out.





He's tossing pebbles now as Samuel dozes. Paterson looks wild; 
only nervous energy is keeping him going now.



THE SKY. The moon. Peaceful- then it turns bright yellow and 
frightening black clouds gather and



PATTERSON, blinking, coming hard back to reality because the sky 
is not yellow nor were there black clouds- he's starting to 
hallucinate.





Samuel is awake now. Patterson stares at the river which is calm.



THE RIVER, raging and black and lethal.



PATTERSON, hallucinating again.





and The Darkness suddenly is there, creeping across the bridge 
toward the shrieking baboon and the instant it appears-



PATTERSON. Firing-



-THE DARKNESS, and it's hit and it roars and goes down and-



-PATTERSON, turning, reaching for Samuel's rifle, grabbing it, 
turning back, ready to fire again-



THE DARKNESS- gone.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL, blinking, looking around.


		Where is it?


			
		Underneath.
			
		Somewhere.



WHERE HE'S POINTING. The superstructure for the bridge- it goes 
several levels beneath the level where the railroad will run.

They look at each other- not good news and we find out why when we





Patterson and Samuel climb carefully down from their platform to 
the railroad level. They reach the railroad level. PAtterson 
releases the baboon which races away.



WHERE THEY ARE. At the end of the bridge where they began 
construction. The bridge, two thirds finished, stretches away 
before them.



They begin to walk the incomplete bridge... carefully...

..as they go the look down through the crevices of their level, 
making sure they miss nothing.



SAMUEL. Terrified. Holding his rifle extremely tightly.



PATTERSON. Ready for anything.



THE BRIDGE up ahead of them. There are some holes.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL slowing.



THE HOLES. The nearest one is the largest.



PATTERSON. He goes on tiptoe, trying to see what's in the hole.



THE HOLE. It seems empty.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL. One step forward. Another. They hold their 
breaths.



THE HOLE. It seems empty.



A SHOT FROM BELOW BRIDGE LEVEL- The Darkness is there.



PATTERSON, firing.



THE DARKNESS, going down through another level of scaffolding.



PATTRSON AND SAMUEL, trying to track it.



THE SCAFFOLDING. Nothing is visible.



PATTERSON AND SAMUEL- Frozen. They listen-

-nothing but their breathing.



PATTERSON, looking around everywhere.



THE HOLE. Nothing.



THE FIRST LEVEL of scaffolding. Nothing.



THE SECOND LEVEL of scaffolding. Nothing.



SAMUEL, looking this way, that way.



THE HOLE AS THE DARKNESS JUST FUCKING FLIES OUT OF IT- Patterson 
falls back and fires and The Darkness is hit and goes down but it 
gets up and



PATTERSON, turning for Samuel's rifle-

-only Samuel isn't there-

-he's taken off for the trees at the end of the bridge and







PATTERSON and he turns, starts running too, running across the 
narrow half-completed bridge and it's a bitch to do it without 
slipping or falling and



THE DARKNESS, wounded, sure, but the mother can still run and it 
takes off after Patterson and



SAMUEL, making it to the end of the bridge and jumping for the 
nearest tree and



PATTERSON running for his life across the bridge and



THE DARKNESS, closing the gap and ordinarily Patterson would be a 
dead man but even though The Darkness hasn't got its ordinary 
speed, it's still faster than Patterson and



PATTERSON, and he's never gone this fast in his life and



THE TREE HE'S HEADED FOR, a different one from Samuel's and it's 
just up ahead and



THE DARKNESS, closing and



THE TREE, and



THE DARKNESS, springing into the air now and



PATTERSON, diving for the lowest branch, grabbing hold with both 
hands, swinging his body up as we



THE DARKNESS, barely missing as Patterson gets his body onto the 
branch and now comes this insane roar and



SAMUEL with his rifle, as he climbs higher into his tree.



PATTERSON in the next tree, climbing higher, until he's fifteen 
feet up.



THE DARKNESS, on the ground, circling the trunk of Patterson's 
tree, raging with frustration.



PATTERSON, exhausted but it's okay now, he's safe, and as he looks 
across at the next tree not far away where Samuel is-


			
		Afraid of lions.






		It's all right, Samuel- we all
		get hit-
			(Now he shuts up 
			fast and-)



THE DARKNESS, as it does this incredible thing- it starts to climb 
the tree after Patterson. Lions are cats and when they want to 
climb, up they go and that's what The Darkness is doing now, going 
up and



PATTERSON, and it's terrifying- he reaches for the branch above, 
climbing higher and



THE DARKNESS, climbing higher too and the tree is sturdy but there 
is a four hundred pound thing rocking it now and



PATTERSON, going still higher but the branches are getting thinner 
and the tree is shaking, and he could fall-



THE DARKNESS, climbing on, nothing can stop it-



PATTERSON AND THE DARKNESS, together in the tree, and there's no 
further Patterson can go and it's harder for The Darkness too, but 
slowly it moves in and



PATTERSON, calling out-


		Samuel!
			(And he gestures for
			the rifle and the
			instant he does-)



SAMUEL, and he takes the rifle between his two hands and



THE DARKNESS, steadily moving in and



SAMUEL, tossing the rifle with great care and Patterson's less 
than fifteen feet away and



PATTERSON, hands out to catch it and



THE RIFLE in mid-air and



PATTERSON, both hands ready and



THE RIFLE as it strikes a tree branch, spins away to the ground.



THE DARKNESS, almost on Patterson now and



PATTERSON, suddenly leaping out of the tree, and yes it's a long 
way and sure it's going to damage him but sometimes there aren't a 
lot of choices in this world and



SAMUEL, staring as Patterson falls and



PATTERSON, crashing hard to earth, stunned, hurt, ribs broken, leg 
broken and



THE DARKNESS, and it's so big it's hard for it to get room to turn 
but it does and



PATTERSON crawling for the rifle, and he's in terrible pain but he 
reaches the weapon, grabs for it and



THE DARKNESS, skittering down the tree and as it reaches the 
ground



PATTERSON, forcing himself to his feet and



THE DARKNESS, a dozen feet away as with a roar it starts its 
charge.



PATTERSON, aims, fires and



THE DARKNESS, hit again and down it goes again but up it comes 
again and



PATTERSON, firing the final shot and



THE DARKNESS, hit again and it has to stop, it just has to-

-but it doesn't.

It roars and roars and moves slowly toward Patterson.



PATTERSON; all bullets gone, no place to hide.



THE DARKNESS. Still moving forward.



PATTERSON. He takes a step backward, falls backwards over a 
branch, lands hard and



THE DARKNESS, framed between Patterson's legs. Six feet away, now 
four, now-



PATTERSON, helpless on the ground.



THE DARKNESS, and the eyes glow-

-a branch is on the ground in front of it- it buries its huge 
teeth into the branch-

-now a long dying sigh... and it goes to the ground.



PATTERSON. Can't breathe.



THE DARKNESS, dead, its teeth still buried in the tree branch.



PATTERSON. CLOSE UP. And suddenly he just empties and tears pour 
down his face and he begins to cry out loud, his body wracked with 
sobs. He manages to get to his knees, moves next to the animal-



PATTERSON AND THE DARKNESS. Just the sound of Patterson's tears...









-hundreds of people are watching as the first train goes oer it-

-Samuel is there- lighting up the world with his smile-

-and Patterson's there, too. He stands with Helena, his young son 
in his arms.

Everybody smiles, everybody waves, the train goes triumphantly by.



PATTERSON. He looks wonderful again, vibrant and young. Watching 
him, you might think he hadn't been through the nightmare as he 
stands there, holding the boy tightly.

But with his other hand, he fingers the lion claw necklace...



Now slowly dissolve to an African evening. Animals stretch from 
one horizon to the other.

				SAMUEL VOICE 
		Here we still wonder about them.
		How did they escape for nine months?
		And kill 135 men? And stop the
		railroad?
			
		And were they only lions?
			
		If you want to decide for yourself,
		you must go to America. They are at
		the Field Museum in Chicago, and
		even now, after they have been dead
		a century, if you dare to lock eyes
		with them...
			
		...you will be afraid.

In the distance, the animals continue to move.

				SAMUEL VOICE 
		Sleep well.

HOLD ON THE ANIMALS. They seem to go on forever...







