





                   Post Production Script.





























                                                  July, 1980








Lake and Mountains.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD past island in
lake.





High Angle V.W. Car moving along road - CAMERA TILTS UP with
it.





Mountains and Road - V.W. Car moves away along road - CAMERA
TRACKS after it.



L.S.  V.W. Car moving away along road - CAMERA TRACKS after
it and passes car - TRACKING FORWARD to Mountains in b.g.



M.L.S. High Angle V.W. Car moves away along road - CAMERA
TILTS UP with it.  Car goes into tunnel and comes out other
side.  CAMERA TRACKS after car.



L.S.  V.W. Car moves along road.  CAMERA TRACKS after it.
Mountains in b.g.



L.S. High Angle V.W. Car moving away along road.  Mountain
in b.g.  CAMERA TRACKS after car.



L.S. Mountain - CAMERA TRACKS IN on Hotel.



Black Frames.










Jack walks L-R across Lobby.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK &amp; PANS with
him to RECEPTIONIST behind desk.


            Hi, I've got an appointment with Mr.
            Ullman.  My name is Jack Torrance.


            His office is the first door on the
            left.


            Thank you.

JACK moves away R-L.  CAMERA PANS with him and TRACKS IN
after him through Secretary's office to open door of ULLMAN's
office - revealing ULLMAN seated at desk with SECRETARY
standing beside him.


            Mr. Ullman?


            Yes?


            I'm Jack Torrance.


            Oh, well - come on in Jack.

ULLMAN stands up and hands book to SECRETARY, walking round
side of desk.  JACK moves into office.  CAMERA TRACKS IN
after him.  He shakes hands with ULLMAN.


            Very nice to meet you.


            Nice to meet you, Mr. Ullman.

ULLMAN points to SECRETARY.


            This is my secretary, Susie.


            Hallo.


            Susie, how do you do?





            Have any trouble finding us?


            Oh, no problem at all.  I made the
            trip in three and a half hours.


            Well, that's very good time, very
            good.  Please sit down a minute.

ULLMAN points to chair cam.R.  JACK sits cam.R.f.g.  ULLMAN
walks behind desk.


            JAck, just make yourself at home.
            Would you like some coffee?


            Well, if you are going to have
            some, I wouldn't mind.  Thanks.


            Susie.


            Sure.


            Oh, and would you ask Bill Watson
            to join us?


            Yes, I will.

ULLMAN sits behind desk.  SUSIE walks forward to R.f.g.





Apartment Building - cars parked in front of it.  Mountain
in b.g.  CAMERA TRACKS IN on Apartment Building.






DANNY is sitting at table eating a sandwich.  WENDY sitting
cam.R reading book.


            Mom...





            Yeah.


            Do you really want to go and live
            in that hotel for the winter?


            Sure, Danny, it will be lots of fun.


            Yeah, I guess so.  Anyway, there's
            hardly anybody to play with around
            here.


            Yeah, I know.  It always takes a
            little time to make new friends.



M.S. DANNY eating sandwich.


            Yeah, I guess so.






            What about Tony?  He's looking
            forward to the hotel, I bet.



M.S. DANNY while eating sandwich wiggles forefinger of his
L.hand and speaks with different voice.


            NO, I ain't Mrs. Torrance.






            Oh come on, Tony.  Don't be silly.



M.S. DANNY wiggles forefinger of L.hand and speaks with
different voice.





            I don't want to go there, Mrs.
            Torrance.






            Well, how come you don't want to go?



M.S. DANNY wiggles forefinger of L.hand and speaks with
different voice.


            I just don't.






            Well, let's just wait and see.
            We're all gonna have a real good
            time.





JACK over ULLMAN seated at desk.  BILL WATSON enter office.
JACK rises and shakes hands with him.


            Bill, I'd like you to meet Jack
            Torrance.


            How do you do?


            Bill, how do you do?


            Pleased to meet you.


            Pleasure to meet you.


            Grab a chair Bill, and join in.




WATSON &amp; JACK sit down.


            Jack is going to take care of the
            Overlook for this winter.  I would
            like you to take him around the
            place as soon as we are through.


            Fine.


            Jack is a schoolteacher.






            Eh - formerly a school-teacher.


            What line of work are you in now?


            I'm a writer um... Teaching has
            been more or less a way of making
            ends meet.






            Well this ought to be quite a
            change for you.






            Well, I'm looking for a change.


            Our people in Denver recommended
            Jack very highly, and, for once, I
            agree with them.









            Let's see, where were we?  Yes.  I
            was about to explain that eh... our
            season here runs from oh May 15th
            to October 30th and then we close
            down completely until the following
            May.






            Do you mind if I ask why you do
            that?  It seems to me that the
            skiing up here would be fantastic.


            Oh, it sure would be






            but the problem is the enormous
            cost it would be to keep the road
            to the Sidewinder open.  It's a...
            It's a 25 mile stretch of road -
            gets an average of 20 feet of snow
            during the winter, and there's just
            no way to make it economically
            feasible to keep it clear.  When
            the place was built in 1907, there
            was very little interest in winter
            sports, and this site was chosen
            for its seclusion and scenic beauty.



M.L.S. ULLMAN over WATSON &amp; JACK.


            Well, it's certainly got plenty of
            that.

JACK laughs.


            That's right.  And did they give
            you any idea in Denver about what
            the job entails?





            Only in a very general way.


            Well...






            ...the winters can be fantastically
            cruel, and the basic idea is
            to...to cope with the very costly
            damage and depreciation which can
            occur.  And this consists mainly of
            running the boiler, heating
            different parts of the hotel on a
            daily rotating basis, repairing
            damage as it occurs and doing
            repairs, so that the elements can't
            get a foothold.






            Well, that sounds fine to me.

ULLMAN grunts off.






            Physically, it's not a very
            demanding job.  The only thing that
            can get a bit trying up here during
            the winter is eh... the tremendous
            sense of isolation.






            Well, that just happens to be
            exactly what I'm looking for.  I'm
            eh... I'm outlining a new writing
            project, and eh...






            five months of peace is just what I
            want.






            That's very good Jack, because eh...
            for some people eh solitude and
            isolation...






            can of itself be a problem.


            Not for me.






            How about your wife and son?  How
            do you think they'll take to it?






            They'll love it.


            Great...






            Well, before I turn you over to
            Bill, there is one other thing I
            think we should talk about.  I
            don't want to sound melodramatic,
            but it is something that's...






            been known to give a few people
            second thoughts about the job.






            I'm intrigued.






            I don't suppose they eh told you
            anything in Denver about the
            tragedy we had up here during the
            winter of 1970?



M.C.S. JACK shakes his head.


            I don't believe they did.






            Well, my predecessor in this job






            hired a man named Charles Grady, as
            the winter caretaker.  He came up
            here with his wife and two little
            girls of about eight or ten.  And
            he had a good employment record,
            good references and from what I've
            been told, I mean, he seemed like a
            completely normal individual.  But
            at some point during the winter, he
            must have suffered some kind of a
            complete mental breakdown.






            He ran amok and eh... killed his
            family with an axe,






            stacked them neatly in one of the
            rooms in the West Wing, and then he
            um... then he put eh both barrels
            of his shotgun in his mouth.



M.S. ULLMAN sitting behind desk.


            The police eh... they thought that
            it was what the old-timers used to
            call cabin-fever, a kind of
            claustrophobic reaction which can
            occur when people are






            shut in together over long periods
            of time.


            Well, that is eh quite a story.



M.S. ULLMAN laughs.


            Yes, it is.  Oh, it's still hard
            for me to believe that it actually
            happened here, but it did and eh...
            I think you can appreciate why I
            wanted to tell you about it.









            Ah, I certainly can, and eh... I
            also understand why your people in
            Denver left it for you to tell me.

JACK laughs.



U.S. ULLMAN laughing.


            Well, obviously some people can be






            put off by the idea of staying
            alone in a place where something
            like that actually happened.


            Well, you can rest assured Mr.
            Ullman, that's not going to happen
            with me, and eg as far as my wife
            is concerned, I am sure she'll be
            absolutely fascinated when I tell
            her about it.  She's a confirmed
            ghost story and horror film addict.





Shooting through open door - DANNY standing on stool at basin.


            Tony, do you think Daddy will get
            the job?


            Yeah, he did.  He's gonna phone
            Wendy up in a few minutes to tell
            her.





WENDY back to camera washing dishes at sink.  PHONE RINGS
OFF.  She dries her hand and puts carton in fridge.  Then
moves L-R into Living Room - CAMERA PANS with her.




She picks up telephone receiver.


                   
            Hello.





JACK leaning on counter at reception desk, speaking into
phone.


                   
            Hi, babe.


                   
            Hi, hon.  How's it going?


                   
            Great.  Look, I'm at the hotel and
            I still have an awful lot to go
            through.  I don't think I can get
            home before nine or ten.





WENDY sitting on back of chair phone to ear.


                   
            Sounds like you got the job?





JACK leaning on reception desk with phone to ear.


                   
            Right it's a beautiful place.  You
            and Danny are gonna love it.



DANNY standing on stool by basin.  He is reflected in mirror.
CAMERA TRACKS IN on his reflection in mirror.





            Tony, why don't you want to go to
            the hotel?

DANNY wiggles forefinger.


            I don't know.


            You do too know, now come on tell me.

DANNY wiggles forefinger.


            I don't want to.


            Please...

DANNY wiggles forefinger.


            No.


            Now Tony, tell me.





Shooting towards doors of lifts.  Blood gushes in from
L.side of lift and in from corridors L. and R. of lift
doors - surging towards camera.





Two Little GRADY girls holding hands.





Blood gushing in from corridors L-R of lift doors and
surging towards camera.








DANNY screaming.





Blood gushing in from corridors L-R of lift doors and
surging forward.  The blood gushes up into camera lens
causing black out.


            Now hold your eyes still so that I
            can see.





DOCTOR bending over DANNY lying on top of his bed.  She is
examining his eyes.  WENDY standing at foot of bed.


            That's good, now the other one.
            Good boy.

DOCTOR straightens up.  She puts instrument away in case and
closes it.  Then she sits on bed beside DANNY.


            Now Danny, when you were brushing
            your teeth, do you remember if you
            smelled anything funny, or saw any
            bright flashing lights, or anything
            at all strange?






            No.


            Do you remember when you were
            brushing your teeth?


            Yes.






M.S. DOCTOR sitting on bed beside DANNY.  WENDY standing at
foot of bed.


            What's the next thing you remember
            after you were brushing your teeth?






            Mommy saying, 'Wake up, wake up,
            wake up Danny, wake up.'



M.S. DOCTOR sitting on bed beside DANNY.  WENDY standing at
foot of bed.


            Now Danny, can you remember what
            you were doing just before you
            started brushing your teeth?






            Talking to Tony.






            Is Tony one of your animals?






            No.  It's the little boy that lives
            in my mouth.






            Tony is his imaginary friend.





            Oh,






            if you were to open your mouth now,
            could I see Tony?






            No.






            Why not?






            Because he hides.






            Where does he go?






            To my stomach.






            Does Tony ever tell you to do things?







            I don't want to talk about Tony
            anymore.



M.S. DOCTOR sitting on bed beside DANNY.  She pats his leg
and stands up.  WENDY at foot of bed.


            Okay.  That's fine.  All right Danny.

DOCTOR puts case and stethoscope in her shoulder bag.


            Now I'm going to ask you to do me a
            favor, and stay quietly in bed for
            the rest of the day.  Okay?


            Do I have to?


            Yes, I'd like you to.


            We're just going to go into one of
            the other rooms for a few minutes
            and talk - then I'll come back and
            check on you, okay?


            Okay.


            Goodbye.

WENDY &amp; DOCTOR move R-L to open door.  DOCTOR goes into the
corridor.





DOCTOR standing in corridor.  WENDY moves out of DANNY's
room and closes the door.  She turns to DOCTOR.


            Shall we go into the living room?


            Yes.




DOCTOR &amp; WENDY walk forward along the corridor - CAMERA
TRACKS BACK before them and PANS R-L with them to Living
Room.  WENDY points to sofa.


            Please...


            Thank you.

DOCTOR moves to sofa and sits down - WENDY sits in chair
cam.R.


            Mrs. Torrance, I don't think you
            have anything to worry about.  I'm
            quite sure there is nothing
            physically wrong with Danny.






            Oh, yeah.  Oh, yeah, he seems
            absolutely fine now, but you should
            have seen him.



M.S. DOCTOR over WENDY.  DOCTOR leans back on sofa.


            Oh I know.  Kids can scare you to
            death, but believe me these episodes
            are not at all uncommon, and they
            look much worse than they are.



M.S. WENDY over DOCTOR.


            But eh what was the matter with him?


            Mrs. Torrance, most of the time
            these episodes with kids are never
            explained.  They are brought on by
            emotional factors, and they rarely
            occur again.









            They're more akin to auto-hypnosis,
            a kind of self induced trance.  If
            it re-occurs which I doubt



M.S. WENDY takes cigarette out of packet.


            you can always think about having
            some tests done.

WENDY holds cigarette packet out towards DOCTOR.


            No thank you.

She puts packet down on table.


            Oh, I'm...I'm sure you're right.

She lights cigarette from lighter.






            Have you been in Boulder long, Mrs.
            Torrance?






            Only about three months.  Eh we're
            from Vermont.  My husband was
            teaching school there.






            Did the appearance of Danny's
            imaginary friend...?






M.S. WENDY over DOCTOR.


            Tony.


            Did Tony's first appearance happen
            to coincide with your arrival here?






            No, um let's see I guess Danny
            started talkin to Tony about the
            time we put him into nursery school.



M.S. DOCTOR over WENDY.


            Did he adjust well to school?



M.C.S. WENDY - she shakes her head.


            No.  He didn't like it too much at
            first, and then he had an injury,
            so we kept him out for a while,
            and, yeah, I...I guess that's about
            the time when I first noticed that
            he was talking to Tony.



M.S. DOCTOR over WENDY.


            What sort of injury did he have?






            Ah he dislocated his shoulder.

WENDY inhales.





            How did he manage to do that?


            Well it's just one of those things.
            You know... purely an accident, um.
            My husband had oh... been drinking,
            and he came home about three hours
            late, so he wasn't exactly in the
            greatest mood that night.  And well
            Danny had scattered some of his
            school papers all over the room...
            and my husband grabbed his arm, you
            know, and pulled him away from them.
            It's...it's just the sort of thing
            you do a hundred times with a
            child - you know, in a park or on
            the streets - but on this particular
            occasion my husband just... used
            too much strength and he injured
            Danny's arm.






            Anyway, something good did come out
            of it all because he said:






            "Wendy, I'm never gonna touch
            another drop and if I do you can
            leave me", and he didn't and he
            hasn't had any alcohol in eh five
            months.





Superimposed Title over:










High Angle Trees on side of Mountain - CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD
over them to Jack's car moving away along road.





WENDY sitting beside JACK as he drives along Mountain Road.
DANNY, between them, is leaning on backs of their seats.
WENDY yawns.


            Boy, we must be really high up.
            The air feels so different.


            Uh...huh.


            Dad?


            Yes?


            I'm hungry.


            Well you should have eaten your
            breakfast.


            We'll get something as soon as we
            get to the hotel, okay?


            Okay, Mom.


            Hey, wasn't it around here that the
            Donner party got snowbound?


            I think that was farther west in
            the Sierras.


            What was the Donner party?





            There were a party of settlers in
            the covered wagon times.  They got
            snowbound one winter in the
            mountains.  They had to resort to
            cannabilism in order to stay alive.


            You mean they ate each other up?


            They had to, in order to survive.


            Jack...


            Don't worry, Mom.  I know all about
            cannabilism, I saw it on T.V.


            See, it's okay.  He saw it all on
            the television.





High Angle JACK's car moving away along road on side of
mountain - CAMERA TRACKS after it.





Cars parked in front of Hotel.





Man cleaning floor.  CAMERA TRACKS L-R.  WATSON &amp; ULLMAN
walk forward from b.g.


            What time does the plane leave?


            Eight thirty.


            Well, that still gives up plenty of
            time to go over everything first.




Two Girls carrying luggage enter cam.R and walk away to b.g.


            Goodbye Mr. Ullman.


            Goodbye.

ULLMAN &amp; WATSON walk L-R to JACK sitting in chair.


            Good morning Jack.  I hope you
            haven't been waiting too long.


            No problem.  In fact we had time to
            grab a bite to eat.

JACK stands up.


            Good.  Glad you made it before they
            shut down the kitchen.  Is your
            family having a look around?


            No, my son's discovered the games
            room.


            Oh... Has your luggage been brought
            in?

JACK points to luggage.


            Right there.


            Oh fine.  Well in view of all the
            ground that we to cover today, I
            suggest we go and have a quick look
            at your apartment and then get
            started straight away.

ULLMAN turns to WATSON.


            Bill, would you have the Torrances'
            things brought in their apartment.


            Fine.




WATSON walks out cam.L.


            I'd better collect my family first.


            Oh...

ULLMAN laughs and they move out cam.L.





ULLMAN, followed by WENDY, JACK &amp; WATSON, moves out of lift
cam.R.  They walk R-L across Lounge.  CAMERA TRACKS with them.


            This is our Colorado Lounge.


            Oh, it's beautiful.
                   
            My God, this place is fantastic,
            isn't it hon?


            Sure is.


            God, I've never seen anything like
            this before.  Are all of these
            Indian designs authentic?


            Yes, I believe they are based
            mainly on Navajo and Apache motifs.


            Oh well they're really gorgeous.
            As a matter of fact this is probably
            the most gorgeous hotel I've ever
            seen.

ULLMAN laughs.


            Oh this old place has had an
            illustrious past.  In its heyday it
            was one of the stopping places for
            the jet set,

They reach corner and turn, walking towards camera.





            even before anybody knew what a jet
            set was.  We've had four presidents
            who stayed here, lots of movie stars.


            Royalty?


            All the best people.





DANNY throwing darts - CAMERA TRACKS BACK &amp; PANS L-R with
him as he walks to the dartboard.  He climbs up on chair and
pulls two darts out.  He looks cam.L.  CAMERA ZOOMS IN on him.



M.S. Two GRADY girls, holding hands, standing near open door.







M.S.  Two GRADY girls, holding hands.  They look at one
another, then turn and exit out through open doorway.









ULLMAN leads WENDY &amp; JACK forward along corridor to
Caretaker's Apartment.


            This is the staff wing of the hotel.
            None of the other bedrooms are
            heated during the winter.


            Oh!

Two Girls carrying bags enter from cam.L.





            Goodbye Mr. Ullman.


            Goodbye girls.

ULLMAN waves to Girls and moves cam.R into JACK's apartment.
WENDY &amp; JACK follow him.


            And here are your quarters.





ULLMAN, followed by WENDY and JACK, move up steps.  ULLMAN
points to open door cam.R.


            Living Room, bedroom, bathroom, and
            a small bedroom for your son.

JACK leans forward and looks in small bedroom cam.L.  He
turns and looks cam.R. at ULLMAN.


            Perfect for a child.


            Yeah.


            Yes.

They move into apartment.  JACK &amp; WENDY move away through
living room into bedroom - CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after them.


            Well the place is very nicely self-
            contained, easy to keep.

JACK feels bed.


            Cosy.

JACK &amp; WENDY move away and enter bathroom - CAMERA TRACKS
after them.





            Yes, very cosy for a family, and if
            you feel like spreading out you
            have the rest of the hotel to move
            around in.


            Well, it's very... homely.


            Yeah.





ULLMAN leading WENDY, JACK &amp; WATSON R-L along outside of
Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS &amp; PANS with them.


            This is our famous hedge maze.
            It's quite an attraction around
            here.  The walls are thirteen feet
            high and the hedges are about as
            old as the hotel itself.  It's a
            lot of fun,

They walk from end of Maze towards Hotel in b.g.


            but I wouldn't go in there unless I
            had an hour to spare to find my way
            out.

Laughter.


            When was the Overlook built?



M.L.S. ULLMAN leads WENDY, JACK &amp; WATSON L-R along front of
Hotel - CAMERA TRACKS with them.


            Ah... construction started in 1907.
            It was finished in 1909.  The site
            is supposed to be located on an
            Indian burial ground, and I believe
            they actually had to repel a few
            Indian attacks as they were building
            it.

ULLMAN points to red Snowcat at entrance of garage.





            That's our Snowcat.  Can you both
            drive a car?


                   
            Yes.

They walk towards SNOWCAT.


            That's fine because basically the
            Snowcat operates very much like a
            car and it won't take you long to
            get the hang of it.





ULLMAN, JACK, WATSON &amp; WENDY walk forward along corridor -
CAMERA TRACKS BACK before them.


            As a matter of fact we eh...
            brought a decorator in from Chicago
            just last year to refurbish this
            part of the hotel.


            Oh well he sure did a beautiful job.
            Pink and gold are my favorite colors.

ULLMAN leads WENDY, JACK &amp; WATSON L-R into Gold Ballroom -
CAMERA TRACKS with them.  Men in b.g. cleaning Ballroom.


            Oh...well this is our gold ballroom.


            Oh, I'll say.

ULLMAN leads them L-R across Ballroom to closed bar.


            We can accommodate up to three
            hundred people here very comfortably.


            Boy, I bet you we could really have
            a good party in this room, huh hon?





            I'm afraid you're not going to do
            too well here unless you've brought
            your own supplies.  We always
            remove all the booze from the
            premises when we shut down:

He points to shuttered bar.


            that reduces the insurance that we
            normally have to carry.

DICK HALLORAN walks forward from b.g.


            We don't drink.

ULLMAN laughs.


            Well then, you're in luck.

ULLMAN waves to HALLORAN/


            Oh Dick, come on over and say hello
            to Mr. and Mrs. Torrance.


            Sure.


            This is Dick Halloran, our Head Chef.

JACK shakes hands with DICK.


            Mr. Halloran, I'm Jack, and this is
            my wife, Winifred.


            Glad to meet you, Jack.

HALLORAN shakes hands with WENDY.


            Glad to meet you, Winifred.


            Nice to meet you.





            The Torrances are going to take
            care of the Overlook for us this
            winter.


            Oh, that's just great.  How do you
            folks like our hotel so far?


            Oh it's just wonderful.

WENDY waves out cam.L.


            Hi Danny!





SUSIE holding DANNY's hand.  They walk L-R across Ballroom.
CAMERA TRACKS with them to JACK, HALLORAN, WATSON, WENDY &amp;



            I found him outside looking for you.



            Danny, did you get tired

            of bombing the universe?


            Yeah.


            Danny, come on over here.

DANNY walks L-R from SUSIE to WENDY.  WENDY looks at SUSIE.


            Thanks.


            Thank you, Susie.

SUSIE exits cam.L.  ULLMAN turns to HALLORAN.





            Dick, if you're ready to do it now,
            I think it would be a good idea if
            you could show Mrs. Torrance the
            kitchen, while I continue on with
            Jack.


            It will be a pleasure.  Right this
            way Mrs. Torrance.


            Great.  See you later, hon.

HALLORAN walks away to b.g.  WENDY &amp; DANNY follow him.


            Bye darling.

ULLMAN, JACK &amp; WATSON move out cam.L.





WENDY holding DANNY's hand walks forward into kitchen with
HALLORAN.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before them.


            Mrs. Torrance, your husband
            introduced you as Winifred.  Now
            are you a Winnie or a Freddie?


            I'm a Wendy.


            Oh Wendy.  That's nice.  That's the
            prettiest.


            God.  This is the kitchen, huh?


            Yeah, this is it.  How do you like
            it, Danny?  Is it big enough for you?


            Yeah, it's the biggest place I've
            ever seen.

HALLORAN laughs.





            Yeah.  This whole place is such an
            enormous maze, I feel I'll have to
            leave a trail of breadcrumbs every
            time I come in.

HALLORAN laughs.


            Don't let it get you down Mrs.
            Torrance - it's big but it still
            ain't nothing but a kitchen... a
            lot of the stuff you'll never have
            to touch.


            I wouldn't know what to do with it
            if I did.


            Well one thing for sure, you don't
            have to worry about food because
            you folks could eat up here a whole
            year and never have the same menu
            twice.

HALLORAN points to cam.L and leans to cam.L taking hold of
door handle.


            Now right here is our walk-in
            freezer.





HALLORAN opens door and steps into freezer.  WENDY &amp; DANNY
stand in doorway.  HALLORAN points to various items.


            Now this is where we keep all of
            out meat.  You got fifteen rib
            roasts - thirty ten pound bags of
            hamburgers.  You got twelve-
            turkeys, two dozen pork roasts and
            twenty legs of lamb.
                   
            Do you like lamb, Doc?


            No.





            You don't?  Well what's your
            favorite food then?


            French Fries and Ketchup.

HALLORAN laughs.


            Well I think we can manage that
            too, Doc.  Come along now.  Watch
            your step.

HALLORAN points to step by door.





DANNY &amp; WENDY, followed by HALLORAN, come out of Freezer.


            Mr. Halloran,

HALLORAN closes the door and turns to WENDY.


            how did you know we called him 'Doc'?

HALLORAN, DANNY &amp; WENDY walk forward - CAMERA TRACKS BACK
with them.


            Beg pardon?


            Doc.  You called Danny 'Doc' twice
            just now.


            I did?


            Yeah.  We call him Doc sometimes,
            you know, like in the Bugs Bunny
            cartoons.  But how did you know that?


            Well I guess I probably heard you
            call him that.





            Well, it's possible, but I honestly
            don't remember calling him that
            since we've been with you.

They all stop walking.


            Well anyway, he looks like a Doc,
            doesn't he?

HALLORAN bends down to DANNY.


                   
            Me ah - what's up, Doc?

HALLORAN laughs and turns away to door cam.L.  He opens door.


            Now this is the storeroom.





HALLORAN moves forward into Storeroom, followed by DANNY &amp;
WENDY.  Groceries stacked on shelves.


            In here, Mrs. Torrance, is where we
            keep all the dried goods and the
            canned goods.  We got canned fruits
            and vegetables; canned fish and
            meats; hot and cold cereals.

HALLORAN &amp; WENDY move L-R - CAMERA TRACKS with them past
shelf in f.g.


            Post Toasties, Cornflakes, Sugar
            Puffs, Rice Krispies, Oatmeal,
            Wheatina and Cream of Wheat.



M.S. DANNY standing by cardboard boxes.  CAMERA TRACKS IN on
him.


            We got a dozen jugs of black
            molasses, we got sixty boxes of
            dried milk, thirty twelve pound
            bags of sugar.






M.S. HALLORAN talks inaudibly to WENDY, back to camera.
CAMERA TRACKS IN on HALLORAN.


                   
            How'd you like some ice cream, Doc?






            sociables, finger rolls and seven
            kinds of what-have-you.



M.S. HALLORAN &amp; WENDY move R-L to DANNY by open door.
CAMERA TRACKS with them.


            Now we got dried peaches, dried
            apricots, dried raisins and dried
            prunes.





HALLORAN, followed by WENDY &amp; DANNY move out of Storeroom
cam.R.f.g.


            You know, Mrs. Torrance, you gotta
            keep regular, if you want to be
            happy.

HALLORAN laughs as he closes Storeroom door.  JACK, ULLMAN &amp;
WATSON walk forward from b.g.


            Hi.


            Hi.


            How're you getting on?


            Just fine.





            Dick, can we borrow Mrs. Torrance
            for a few minutes?  We're on our
            way through to the basement - I
            promise we won't keep her very long.


            No problem, Mr. Ullman.  I was just
            getting to the ice cream.

HALLORAN leans down to DANNY.


            Do you like ice cream, Doc?


            Yeah.

HALLORAN laughs.


            I thought you did.

HALLORAN straightens up and looks at JACK.


            You folks don't mind if I give
            Danny some ice cream, while we're
            waiting for you?


            Not at all.


            No, we don't mind.


            Good.


            Sound good to you, Danny?


            Yeah.


            Okay.  You behave yourself.

HALLORAN takes hold of DANNY's hand as ULLMAN, JACK, WENDY &amp;
WATSON move away to b.g.


            Now what kind of ice cream do you
            like Doc?





            Chocolate.


            Chocolate it shall be.  Come on son.

HALLORAN &amp; DANNY move out cam.L.





ULLMAN, JACK &amp; WENDY - followed by WATSON - move forward.
CAMERA TRACKS BACK before them.


            It's amazing how much activity is
            going on today.


            Yes, well the guests and some of
            the staff left yesterday, but the
            last day is always very hectic -
            everybody wants to be on their way
            as early as possible.

They turn corner and walk away along corridor.


            By five o'clock tonight, you'll
            never know anybody was ever here.


            Just like a ghost ship, huh?


            Yes.





HALLORAN looking down cam.R.


            Do you know how I knew your name
            was Doc?



M.C.S. DANNY over HALLORAN - DANNY looking at HALLORAN.









            You know what I'm talking about,
            don't you?



M.C.S. DANNY over HALLORAN.  DANNY looking at HALLORAN.






            I can remember when I was a little
            boy, my grandmother and I could
            hold conversations entirely without
            ever opening our mouths.  She
            called it shining,






            and for a long time I thought it
            was just the two of us that had the
            shine to us.






            Just like you probably thought you
            was the only one.  But there are
            other folks, though mostly they
            don't know it, or don't believe it.










            How long have you been able to do it?



M.S. HALLORAN &amp; DANNY sitting at table.





            Why don't you want to talk about it?






            I'm not supposed to.






            Who says you ain't supposed to?






            Tony.






            Who's Tony?






            Tony's the little boy who lives in
            my mouth.






            Is Tony the one that tells you
            things?









            Yes.






            How does he tell you things?



M.S. HALLORAN &amp; DANNY sitting at table.


            It's like I go to sleep, and he
            shows me things but when I wake up,
            I can't remember everything.






            Does your Mum and Dad know about
            Tony?






            Yes.






            Do they know he tell you things?






            Has Tony ever told you anything
            about this place?  About the
            Overlook Hotel?



M.C.S. DANNY over HALLORAN





            I don't know.






            Now think real hard, Doc.  Think.



M.C.S. DANNY over HALLORAN.


            Maybe he showed me something.






            Try to think what it was.



M.C.S. DANNY over HALLORAN.


            Mr. Halloran, are you scared of
            this place?



M.S. Shooting across table onto HALLORAN &amp; DANNY.


            No, I'm scared of nothing here.
            It's just that you know some places
            are like people, some shine and
            some don't.  I guess you could say
            the Overlook Hotel here has
            something about it that's like
            shining.


            Is there something bad here?









            Well, you know Doc, when something
            happens it can leave a trace of
            itself behind... say like is
            someone burns toast.






            Well, maybe things that happened...
            leave other kinds of traces behind.






            Not things that anyone can notice,
            but things that people who shine
            can see.  Just like they can see
            things that haven't happened yet.
            Well, sometimes they can see things
            that happened a long time ago... I
            think a lot of things happened
            right here in this particular
            hotel - over the years, and not all
            of them was good.






            What about Room 237?






            Room 237?






            You're scared of Room 237, ain'tcha?









            No I ain't.






            Mr. Halloran, what is in Room 237?






            Nothing.  There ain't nothing in
            Room 237, but you ain't got no
            business going in there anyway, so
            stay out!  You understand, stay out!









Superimposition over:







Hotel.  Mountain in b.g.





WENDY pushing trolley forward along corridor.  CAMERA TRACKS
BACK with her.  She turns to cam.L and enters Lobby.  CAMERA
TRACKS R-L with her across lobby.





DANNY sitting on tricycle.  He pedals out of Kitchen into
Lounge, across it and back into Kitchen.




CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after him.





WENDY enters cam.L pushing trolley.  She pushes it forward
along corridor.  CAMERA PANS L-R with her to door of their
Apartment.





JACK asleep in bed, reflected in mirror.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK.
WENDY enters cam.R carrying tray.  She walks forward.
CAMERA TRACKS BACK with her.  She puts tray down on table.


            Good Morning, hon.  Your breakfast
            is ready.


            What time is it?


            It's about eleven thirty.

CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD to JACK &amp; WENDY reflected in mirror.


            Eleven thirty - Jesus!


            I guess we've been staying up too
            late.


            I know it.

JACK sticks his tongue out.  WENDY picks up plate and glass
of orange juice.


            I made 'em just the way you like
            'em, sunny side up.


            Hmm, nice.

WENDY walks forward to JACK and puts plate down cam.L.  She
hands him glass of orange juice and he drinks it.





            It's really pretty outside.  How
            about taking me for a walk after
            you've finished your breakfast?


            Oh I suppose I oughta try to do
            some writing first.

He puts empty glass down cam.L and picks up plate of eggs
and bacon.


            Any ideas yet?


            Lots of ideas.  No good ones.

WENDY sits down cam.R.


            Well, something'll come.  It's just
            a matter of settling back into the
            habit of writing every day.


            Yeah... that's all it is.

JACK starts to eat bacon.


            It's really nice up here, isn't it?


            I love it.  I really do.  I've
            never been this happy, or
            comfortable anywhere.






            Yeah.  It's amazing how fast you
            get used to such a big place.  I
            tell you, when we first came up
            here, I thought it was kinda scarey.

WENDY laughs.



M.C.S. JACK over WENDY.





            I fell in love with it right away.
            When I came up here from my
            interview, it was as though I had
            been here before.  We...we all have
            moments of deja vu, but this was
            ridiculous.  It was almost as
            though I knew what was going to be
            around every corner.  Ooohhhhh...

WENDY laughs.





Typewriter with sheet of paper in it.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK
and TILTS UP onto JACK throwing ball against wall.



M.S. JACK back to camera throwing ball against wall.





WENDY running after DANNY from Hotel to Maze - CAMERA PANS
L-R &amp; TRACKS with them to entrance to Maze.


            The loser has to keep American
            clean, how's that?


            All right.


            And you're gonna lose.  And I'm
            gonna get you - you betta run fast!
            Look out - I'm coming in close.
            All right?

DANNY &amp; WENDY run into Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS L-R onto plan of
Maze on board.


            You'll have to keep America clean.








DANNY &amp; WENDY walking forward in Maze - CAMERA TRACKS BACK
before them.


            Okay Danny, you win.  Let's take
            the rest of this walking, huh?


            Okay...oh!


            Give me your hand.  Oh, isn't it
            beautiful.


            Yeah.



M.S. WENDY &amp; DANNY backs to camera walking away through
Maze - CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after them.


            Here's a dead end.

WENDY &amp; DANNY turn at dead end and walk away along Maze.
CAMERA TRACKS after them.





JACK back to camera bounces ball on floor and catches it.
Then he throws it away to b.g.  He walks away to model of
Maze on table by window.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after him.
He stops by model and leans on table.



M.S. Shooting over model of Maze on table to JACK looking
down at it.



M.C.S. JACK looking down.





High Angle shooting down on Maze.  WENDY &amp; DANNY move
through it.  CAMERA TRACKS DOWN on Maze.





            Oh what a Maze.  Isn't it beautiful.


            Yeah.



M.S. DANNY &amp; WENDY walk forward through Maze - CAMERA TRACKS
BACK before them.


            It's so pretty.


            Yeah.


            I didn't think it was going to be
            this big, did you?


            No.





Superimposition over:







Hotel.  Mountain in b.g.





WENDY's hands taking lid of can.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK to
table with portable T.V. Set on it.  The set is switched on.


            Rutherford was serving a life
            sentence for his conviction in the
            1968 shooting and the search
            continues in the mountains near
            Uray today for that missing Aspen
            woman,

WENDY carries tin to bowl on table.





            twenty-four year old Susan Robertson
            has been missing ten days.  She
            disappeared while on a hunting trip
            with her husband.  They have good
            weather right now, but they may
            have to call off the search if the
            predicted snowstorm moves in
            tomorrow.

Picture on T.V. Set changes to MAN &amp; WOMAN.


            But it's so beautiful here in
            Denver today, it's hard to believe
            a snowstorm could be that close.


            I know.  I want to go outside and
            lie in the sun.  Yet to our north,
            to our west, it is snowing and
            cold, and it's moving




            right here towards Colorado, right
            now as we talk.  It's incredible.


            I know.





DANNY back to camera on tricycle pedals away along
corridors - CAMERA TRACKS after him.  He looks at door cam.L
and slows down, stopping.



M.S. DANNY in f.g.  Number 237 on door in b.g.



M.C.S. DANNY looking at number.



M.S. DANNY in f.g.  Number 237 on door in b.g.






M.L.S. Corridor.  DANNY in f.g. gets off tricycle, and moves
R-L to door of room 237.  He looks up at number - then
reaches out to door handle and turns it.  Door doesn't open.
He looks up at number.



M.S. Two GRADY Girls holding hands.



M.S. DANNY looking up at number on door.  He moves L-R to
his tricycle.  CAMERA PANS with him.  He sits on tricycle
and pedals fast away along corridor.





Lounge.  JACK sitting back to camera typing at table.
CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD onto him.



M.C.S. JACK typing.



M.L.S. JACK back to camera typing at table in f.g.  WENDY
enters cam.R.b.g. and walks forward to JACK.


            Hi, hon.  How's it going?

WENDY stops cam.R of him.  JACK pulls page from typewriter.


            Fine.

WENDY kisses him.


            Get a lot written today?



M.S. JACK looking up cam.L at WENDY.


            Yes.









            Hey, the weather forecast said it's
            going to snow tonight.



M.S. JACK looking up cam.L at WENDY.


            What do you want me to do about it?






            Ah, come on hon.  Don't be so
            grouchy.



M.S. JACK looking up cam.L at WENDY.


            I'm not being grouchy.  I just want
            to finish my work.






            Okay.  I understand.  I'll come
            back later on with a couple of
            sandwiches for you and... maybe
            you'll let me read something then.






            Wendy,
                   
            let me explain something to you.
            Whenever you come in here and
            interrupt me, you're breaking my
            concentration.

JACK hits his forehead with his hand.


            you're distracting me,




He picks up sheet of paper and tears it up.  Then he throws
the pieces down.


            and it will then take me time to
            get back to where I was, understand?






            Yes.






            Fine.  Now we're going to make a
            new rule.  Whenever I am in here
            and you hear me typing,

JACK taps typewriter keys.


            or whether you don't hear me
            typing, whatever the fuck you hear
            me doing in here, when I am in here
            that means that I am working - that
            means don't come in.  Now do you
            think you can handle that?






            Yes.






            Fine.  Why don't you start right
            now and get the fuck out of here,
            hmm?









            Okay.



M.L.S. WENDY standing cam.R of JACK back to camera sitting
at table.  She turns and walks away to b.g.  CAMERA TRACKS




M.S. JACK starts to type.



Black Frames.

Superimposition over:







WENDY running R-L being chased by DANNY carrying snowballs.
AD LIB SHOUTS &amp; LAUGHTER.  CAMERA TRACKS R-L with them past
Hotel in b.g.


            I know you've got some.





JACK at window watching WENDY &amp; DANNY playing in the snow.
CAMERA TRACKS IN to M.C.S.





Superimposition over:







HOTEL in b.g.  Trees and snow in f.g.








High Angle JACK sitting at table in b.g. typing.





WENDY standing at switchboard with headset on her L.ear and
putting plugs into switchboard.


            Oh no!

WENDY puts socket into various plugs.


            I knew it!

WENDY puts headset and plug down and turns away from
switchboard.  She walks R-L to door.



M.L.S. WENDY walks out of switchboard - round counter and
moves forward R-L across Lobby.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before
her.  She moves R-L into Office.  CAMERA PANS with her.  She
stops at radio set and switches it on.  She pulls microphone
towards her.


                   
            This is KDK 12 calling KDK 1.





RANGER seated at radio cam.L.  MAN standing at filing
cabinet cam.R.  GIRL seated at desk cam.R.


                   
            KDK 12 to KDK 1.


                   
            This is KDK 1.  We're receiving you.
            Over.








WENDY picks up microphone.


                   
            Hi.  This is Wendy Torrance at the
            Overlook Hotel.





RANGER seated at radio speaking into mike.


                   
            Hi.  How are you folks getting on
            up there?  Over.





WENDY, holding mike, seated on cabinet with foot up on desk.


                   
            Oh we're just fine, but our
            telephones don't seem to be doing
            too well.  Are the lines down by
            any chance?  Over.





RANGER seated at radio, speaking into mike.


                   
            Yes.  Quite a few of them are down,
            due to the storm.  Over.


                   
            Any chance of them being repaired
            soon?  Over.


                   
            Well, I wouldn't like to say.  Most
            winters they stay that way until
            spring.  Over.








WENDY, holding mike, seated on cabinet with foot up on desk.


                   
            Boy, this storm is really something,
            isn't it?  Over.





RANGER sitting at radio - speaking into mike.


                   
            Oh yes.  It's one of the worst
            we've had for years.  Is there
            anything else we can do for you,
            Mrs. Torrance?  Over.





WENDY holding mike seated on cabinet with foot up on desk.


                   
            I suppose not.  Over.





RANGER seated at radio - speaking into mike.


                   
            Well, if you folks have any problems
            up there just give us a call, and
            Mrs. Torrance.





WENDY holding mike - seated on cabinet with one foot up on
desk.





                   
            I think it might be a good idea if
            you leave your radio on all the
            time now.  Over.


                   
            Okay.  We'll do that.  It was real
            nice talking to you.  Bye.  Over
            and Out.

WENDY puts down mike.





DANNY pedals away along corridor on his tricycle.  CAMERA
TRACKS after him.  He exits cam.R at the end of corridor.
CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD along empty corridor.





DANNY pedals away along corridor.  CAMERA TRACKS after him.
He turns corner and stops as he sees the two GRADY Girls at
the end.







M.L.S. DANNY back to camera in f.g.  The two GRADY Girls at
end of corridor.


            Hullo, Danny.






            Come and play with us.



M.L.S. DANNY back to camera in f.g.  The two GRADY Girls at
end of corridor.





            Come and play with us, Danny.



M.S. The two GRADY Girls laying on floor covered with
bloodstains.  Bloodstained axe on floor in f.g.  Walls
covered with bloodstains.



M.L.S. Two GRADY Girls, holding hands and standing at end of
corridor.


            For ever...



M.S. The two GRADY Girls lying on floor, covered with
bloodstains.  Bloodstained axe on floor in f.g.  Wall
covered with bloodstains.



M.C.S. DANNY reacts.



M.S. Two GRADY Girls holding hands and standing at end of
corridor.


            ... and ever...



M.S. The two GRADY Girls lying on floor covered with
bloodstains.  Bloodstained axe on floor in f.g.  Wall
covered with bloodstains.



M.S. Two GRADY Girls holding hands standing at end of
corridor.


            ...and ever.



M.S. Two GRADY Girls lying on floor covered with bloodstains.
Bloodstained axe on floor in f.g.




Wall covered with bloodstains.



M.C.S. DANNY reacts.  He puts hands over his eyes.  Then he
opens his fingers and looks through them.



M.S. DANNY's P.O.V.  Empty corridor.



M.C.S. DANNY looking through his open fingers.  He lowers
his hands from his face.



M.L.S. DANNY back to camera in f.g. in empty corridor.






            Tony, I'm scared.

He raises up his R.hand and wiggles his forefinger as he
speaks.


            Remember what Mr. Halloran said.
            It's just like pictures in a book,
            Danny.  It isn't real.





Superimposition over:







Play on Television set, CAMERA TRACKS BACK from set to
reveal WENDY, seated on sofa cam.L, watching set, DANNY
seated on floor watching set also cam.R.


                   
            Please let me give you some money.





                   
            Oh I wouldn't think of it.


                   
            Well how can I repay you?


                   
            It's okay, really.


                   
            Well I'm going to have some coffee.
            Would you like some?


                   
            Sure.


                   
            Great.  Sit down.  Oh these
            marvellous doughnuts, help yourself.
            Coffee will be ready in a few
            minutes.

Play on Television continues inaudibly in b.g.


            Mom?


            Yes?


            Can I go to my room and get my
            fire-engine?


            Not right now, Daddy's asleep.


            I won't make any noise.


            Come on, Doc.  He only went to bed
            a few hours ago.  Can't you wait
            till later?


            I won't make a sound, I promise.
            I'll tip-toe.





            Well all right.  But really don't
            make a sound.


            I won't, Mom.

DANNY stands up and runs out cam.L.


            Make sure you come right back,
            'cause I'm going to make lunch soon.
            Okay?


            Okay, Mom.





Door opens and DANNY appears.  He enters room - CAMERA
TRACKS BACK with him as he walks forward up steps.  He looks
to cam.R.  CAMERA PANS L-R to JACK sitting on edge of bed.
JACK looks towards camera.



M.L.S. JACK seated on bed cam.R.f.g.  DANNY standing at open
door in b.g.


            Can I go to my room and get my
            fire-engine?


            Come here for a minute, first.

JACK holds out his hand to DANNY, who walks forward.



M.S. JACK sitting on bed.  DANNY enters cam.L.f.g. and stops
cam.R of JACK.  JACK sits DANNY on his knee and puts his
arms round him, kissing him.


            How's it going, Doc?


            Okay.






M.S. JACK over DANNY seated on his knee.


            Are you having a good time?


            Yes, Dad.


            Good.  I want you to have a good
            time.


            I am, Dad.  Dad?


            Yes.


            Do you feel bad?

JACK shakes his head.


            No.  I'm just a little tired.


            Then why don't you go to sleep?


            I can't.  I have too much to do.


            Dad?


            Yes?


            Do you like this hotel?

JACK smiles and looks at DANNY.


            Yes I do.  I love it.  Don't you?


            I guess so.


            Good.  I want you to like it here.
            I wish we could stay here for ever,
            and ever... ever.





            Dad?


            What?


            You wouldn't ever hurt Mummy and
            me, would you?


            What do you mean?



M.S. DANNY over JACK.


            Did your mother ever say that to
            you - that I would hurt you?


            No, Dad.


            Are you sure?


            Yes, Dad.



M.S. JACK over DANNY.


            I love you, Danny.  I love you more
            than anything else in the whole
            world, and I'd never do anything to
            hurt you, never... You know that,
            don't you, huh?


            Yes, Dad.


            Good.





Superimposition over:










Shooting across snow to Hotel in b.g.  Three lit windows.





High Angle - DANNY playing on floor with toy cars and trucks.
CAMERA TRACKS UP &amp; BACK - yellow ball rolls in from f.g. and
stops by one of DANNY's trucks.  DANNY looks up.



M.L.S. DANNY, back to camera, in f.g. looking away along
empty corridor.



M.S. DANNY kneeling on the floor by his toys.  He stands up.


            Mom?



M.L.S. DANNY, back to camera, in f.g.  Empty corridor in b.g.



M.S. DANNY walks forward along corridor - CAMERA TRACKS BACK
with him.


            Mom?



M.L.S. Empty corridor.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD to open door
of Room 237.


            Mom, are you in there?

CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD into room.








WENDY, holding clipboard.  She looks at dials on boiler -
then moves R-L to second boiler.  CAMERA PANS with her.  She
looks at dials - then moves R-L to switchboard and presses
two switches.  She reacts as she hears JACK off groaning in
his sleep.  She puts down clipboard and moves L-R.  CAMERA
PANS with her.  She starts to run away to entrance.





JACK leaning forward in chair with head resting on table.
He groans and cries out as he sleeps.  CAMERA TRACKS IN on
them.





WENDY running away along corridor - CAMERA TRACKS after her.


            Jack...

WENDY turns corner to entrance to Lounge.


            Jack... Jack...

WENDY runs forward into Lounge and goes to JACK asleep at
table.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD.


            Jack, honey, what's wrong?

She puts her hands on his arm and back.  JACK stirs and
falls off chair onto floor.



M.S. JACK groans as he lies on floor.  WENDY enters cam.R
and takes hold of his arm, assisting up onto his knees.  He
groans and gasps.


            What happened, honey?  Hon?  What's
            wrong?  Jack!

She smoothes his hair with her hand.





            I had... I had the most terrible
            nightmare I ever had.  It's the
            most horrible dream I ever had.


            It's okay.  It's okay, now.  Really.






            I dreamed that I... that I killed
            you and Danny.



M.S. JACK over WENDY.


            But I didn't just kill you, I cut
            you up into little pieces.

He puts his hand up to his eyes.


            Oh...



M.S. JACK handed up to his eyes - and WENDY.


            My God, I must be losing my mind!

He lowers his hand.


            Every...everything is just going to
            be all right.  Come on.  Here let's
            get up off the floor.

WENDY puts hand under his arm and he starts to rise.





DANNY back to camera in f.g. walks into Lounge.  In b.g.
WENDY helps JACK up into his chair.  INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE.
WENDY turns to DANNY and throws up her arm.  CAMERA TRACKS
FORWARD with DANNY.





            Danny!  Everything's okay... Just
            go play in your room for a while.
            Your Dad's just got a headache.
            Danny - mind what I say.  Go play
            in your room!

WENDY bends down to JACK.


            Hon, let me just go and get him out
            of here.  I'll be right back.

WENDY moves R-L behind table and moves forward to DANNY in
f.g.


            Danny, why don't you mind me - huh?
            Danny.

She crouches down before DANNY and turns him cam.L to face
her, and the window.  He is sucking his thumb.  She sees
mark on his neck and tilts his head over sideways.


            Oh my God!  Danny what happened to
            your neck?  Danny...

She pulls DANNY's thumb out of his mouth.


            what happened to your neck, huh?

She puts her arms round him.



M.L.S. JACK, back to camera, leaning back in chair in f.g.
WENDY kneeling with her arms round DANNY in b.g.



M.C.S. JACK sitting in chair with his hand up to his head.



M.L.S. JACK back to camera leaning back in chair in f.g.
WENDY kneeling with her arms round DANNY in b.g.  She stands
up and lifts DANNY up in her arms.



M.S. WENDY holding DANNY in her arms.





            You did this to him, didn't you?






            You son of a bitch!  You did this
            to him,

He shakes his head.


            didn't you?

He shakes his head.



M.S. WENDY with DANNY in her arms moves backwards.


            How could you?  How could you?

She turns and runs away to entrance in b.g.



M.C.S. JACK.  He lowers his hand.





JACK enters cam.L in b.g. and walks forward.  CAMERA TRACKS
BACK before him.  He mutters and flings his arms about.  He
stops and looks at notice on trestle - "THE GOLD ROOM." JACK
moves L-R into entrance of Ballroom.  He reaches out cam.L
and switches on lights - then moves away to lit bar in b.g.





JACK walks L-R across Ballroom - CAMERA TRACKS &amp; PANS with
him to bar.



M.L.S. JACK leans over counter and looks down.





                   
            God, I'd give anything for a drink?

JACK sits down and puts his hands up to his face.


            My goddam soul, just a glass of beer.



M.S. JACK with his hands up to his face.  He lowers his
hands and looks - he lowers hands to bar and smiles.


            Hi Lloyd.

JACK looks cam.R then back at camera.


            A little slow tonight, isn't it?

JACK laughs.



M.S. LLOYD standing behind bar.


            Yes, it is, Mr. Torrance.

LLOYD moves forward - CAMERA TRACKS BACK revealing JACK
seated at bar.


            What'll it be?






            Now I'm awfully glad you asked me
            that, Lloyd, because I just happen
            to have two twenties and two tens
            right here in my wallet.  I was
            afraid they were going to be there
            until next April.  So here's what:
            you slip me a bottle of Bourbon, a
            glass and some ice.  You can do
            that, can't you, Lloyd?  You're not
            to busy, are you?









            No, sir.  I'm not busy at all.

LLOYD turns away to bottles of shelf.


            Good man.

LLOYD turns with bottle and glass to counter.


            You set them up, and I'll knock
            them back, Lloyd, one by one.



M.S. JACK sitting at bar.  LLOYD puts bottle and glass down
on bar.  LLOYD puts ice in glass and fills it from bottle.


            White man's burden, Lloyd my man.
            White man's burden.

JACK looks at his wallet then at LLOYD.


            Say, Lloyd, it seems I'm temporarily
            light.

JACK laughs.


            How's my credit in this joint anyway?






            Your credit's fine, Mr. Torrance.






            That's swell.  I like you, Lloyd.
            I always liked you.  You were
            always the best of them.






            Best goddamned bartender from
            Timbuctoo to Portland Maine -
            Portland Oregon for that matter.






            Thank you for saying so.



M.C.S. JACK looks at his glass.


            Here's to five miserable months on
            the wagon and all the irreparable
            harm that it's caused me.

He drinks and lowers his glass - then looks at LLOYD.



M.S. JACK sitting at bar.  LLOYD behind bar.


            How are things going, Mr. Torrance?


            Things could be better, Lloyd.
            Things could be a whole lot better.


            I hope it's nothing serious.

JACK taps on bar and LLOYD fills up his glass.


            No, nothing serious.






            Just a little problem with the...
            old sperm bank upstairs.

JACK laughs.





            Nothing that I can't handle though,
            Lloyd.  Thanks.






            Women!  Can't live with 'em.  Can't
            live without 'em!



M.S. JACK over LLOYD.  He points finger at LLOYD.


            Words of wisdom, Lloyd.  Words of
            wisdom.

JACK drinks - then swirls drink round in glass, putting
glass down on counter.


            I haven't laid a hand on him.
            Goddam it, I didn't.  I wouldn't
            touch one hair of his goddam little
            head.  I love the little son-of-a-
            bitch.

JACK laughs.


            I'd do anything for him.  Any
            fucking thing for him.






            That damn bitch.






            As long as I live she'll never let
            me forget what happened!

He looks cam.L then cam.R -- throwing his hands out and
sighing.





            I did hurt him once, okay?  It was
            an accident, complete unintentional.
            It could have happened to anybody.

He raps on counter with hand.


            And it was three goddam years ago.
            The little fucker had thrown all my
            papers all over the floor.  All I
            tried to do was to pull him up.  A
            momentary loss of muscular
            coordination.  I mean... A few
            extra foot pounds of energy, per
            second... per second.

JACK gestures with his hands.


            Jack...





WENDY, sobbing, runs forward along corridor.  CAMERA TRACKS
BACK with her and PANS L-R into Ballroom.  She runs away to
JACK sitting at bat in b.g.


            Oh Jack!
                   
            Thank God you're here.





JACK sitting back to camera at bar.  WENDY enters cam.R.



            Jack,

            Jack, there's someone else in the
            hotel with us.  There's a crazy
            woman in one of the rooms.  She
            tried to strangle Danny.









            Are you out of your fucking mind?



M.S. WENDY over JACK.


            No.  It's the truth, really.  I
            swear it.  Danny told me.  He went
            up into one of the bedrooms, the
            door was open, and he saw this
            crazy woman in the bath-tub.  She
            tried to strangle him.






            Which room was it?





Montage of shots on T.V. Set for program "NEWSWATCH."


                   
            From Channel 10 in Miami, this is
            Newswatch - with Glen Rinker and
            Bishop, and the award winning
            Newswatch team.

CAMERA TRACKS BACK to reveal T.V. Set.  HALLORAN's bare feet
and legs on bed in f.g.  Shot of GLEN RINKER on T.V. Set
with superimposed title:




                   
            Good evening.  I'm Glen Rinker
            Newswatch 10.  While Miami continues
            to swelter in a record winter
            heatwave bringing temperatures to
            the mid and upper nineties, the
            Central and Rocky Mountain States
            are buried in snow.






            In Colorado ten inches of snow has
            fallen in just a few hours tonight.
            Travel in the Rockies is almost
            impossible.



M.C.S. HALLORAN - CAMERA TRACKS BACK to reveal him lying on
bed, watching T.V.


                   
            Airports are shut down stranding
            thousands of passengers.  Highways
            are blocked by snowdrifts.  Railroad
            tracks are frozen.  Officials in
            Colorado tell Newswatch at least
            three people have been killed by
            exposure to freezing winds.  The
            Governor of Colorado is expected
            tomorrow to declare a weather
            emergency.  The National Guard
            might be called out to clear
            streets and roads.  Weather
            forecasters predict more snow and
            heavy winds tonight and tomorrow,
            with temperatures dropping well
            below zero.



M.S. HALLORAN's feet and legs on beg in f.g.  GLEN RINKER on
T.V. Set at foot of bed.


                   
            Back here in South Florida, we've
            got just the opposite problem; the
            heat and humidity are supposed to
            climb.



M.S. HALLORAN lying on pillows.  CAMERA TRACKS IN to C.S.
his face, as he reacts.


                   
            Local beaches should be jammed.
            Our weather expert Walter Cronice
            will have the local forecast later
            on.




COMMENTATOR continues inaudibly in b.g.





Open door of Room 237.





DANNY, his head shaking.





Mantlepiece and fireplace.  CAMERA PANS R-L across room to
open door.  Then TRACKS FORWARD through doorway to slightly
open door of bathroom.  CAMERA STOPS TRACKING.  Door swings
open to reveal YOUNG LADY seated in bath behind curtain.







M.S. YOUNG LADY seated in bath behind curtain.  She draws
curtain aside with hand.



M.C.S. JACK - he smiles.



M.S. YOUNG LADY stands up in bath.







M.S. YOUNG LADY steps out of bath.



M.C.S. JACK - he smiles.






M.S. YOUNG LADY walks forward from bath and stops in f.g.



M.C.S. JACK - he moves forward.



M.S. JACK moves forward to YOUNG LADY - she puts her arms
round his neck.  He puts his arms round her and they kiss.



M.C.S. JACK over YOUNG LADY as they kiss.  He opens his eyes
and reacts.  He pulls back from YOUNG LADY - CAMERA PANS L-R
onto mirror.  JACK &amp; WOMAN reflected in it.  He sees that
she is covered with scars.  He takes his arms away from
her - she starts to laugh.





DANNY - he is shaking his head.  WOMAN LAUGHING OFF.





ELDERLY WOMAN lying in water in bath.  WOMAN LAUGHING OFF.



M.S. JACK shaking his head as he backs out of bathroom.



M.S. Naked ELDERLY WOMAN laughing as she walks forward with
outstretched arms.





DANNY shaking his head.  WOMAN LAUGHING OFF.





Naked ELDERLY WOMAN lying in water in bath.  WOMAN LAUGHING







M.S. JACK backs down steps into living room - WOMAN LAUGHING




M.S. Naked ELDERLY WOMAN laughing, as she walks forward with
outstretched arms.





DANNY shaking his head.  WOMAN LAUGHING OFF.





Naked ELDERLY WOMAN lying in water in bath.  She starts to
sit up.  WOMAN LAUGHING OFF.





JACK backs out of Room 237 into corridor.  He closes the
door and locks it - then backs away along corridor.  He
exits cam.L.  WOMAN LAUGHING OFF.





HALLORAN telephone up to ear.  He dials number, then picks
up phone and walks R-L to window.  He turns and walks back
L-R.  He puts phone down.


                   
            We are sorry your call cannot be
            completed as dialed.  If you need
            assistance, please call the operator.

He puts telephone down.





WENDY moves R-L in b.g. sobbing.  KNOCK ON DOOR OFF.  She
reacts and runs forward.


            Jack?





            Yes, it's me.

She moves R-L.  CAMERA PANS with her down steps to front
door.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after her.


            Oh, thank God!

WENDY takes chain off door and opens it.  JACK enters
apartment.


            Did you find anything?


            No, nothing at all.

JACK closes front door.


            I didn't see one goddam thing.

JACK &amp; WENDY walks forward and move up steps to DANNY's
bedroom.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before them.


            You went into the room Danny said -
            to 237?


            Yes, I did.


            And you didn't see anything at all?


            Absolutely nothing.  How is he?

JACK moves R-L and looks into darkened bedroom.


            He's still asleep.


            Good.

JACK closes bedroom door and turns to WENDY.


            I'm sure he'll be himself again in
            the morning.




They move L-R into Living Room.  CAMERA PANS with them and
TRACKS after them across room.


            Well, are you sure it was the right
            room?  I mean, maybe Danny made a
            mistake?

WENDY &amp; JACK move into their bedroom.


            He must have gone into that room -
            the door was open and the lights
            were on.

WENDY sits on bed.


            Oh, I just don't understand.

JACK sits down on bed beside her.



M.C.S. WENDY sobbing.


            Well what about those bruises on
            his neck?



M.C.S. JACK over WENDY.


            Somebody did that to him.


            I think he did it to himself.



M.C.S. WENDY shakes her head.


            No!  No, that's not possible.



M.C.S. JACK over WENDY.





            Wendy, once you rule out his
            version of what happened, there is
            no other explanation - is there?
            It wouldn't be that different from
            the episode that he had before we
            came up here, would it?





DANNY lying awake on his bed.  CAMERA TRACKS IN on him.


            Jack, whatever the explanation is,



M.S. Low Angle Door with word "MURDER" written backwards
across it.



M.C.S. DANNY lying awake on his bed.  CAMERA TRACKS IN on him.


            I think we have to get Danny out of
            here.





JACK over WENDY.


            Get him out of here?


            Yes.


            You mean just leave the hotel?


            Yes.








DANNY with his mouth wide open.





Blood gushing forward from lifts and surging up into camera
lens.





JACK over WENDY.


            It is so fucking typical of you to
            create a problem like this when I
            finally have a chance to accomplish
            something.  When I'm really into my
            work.  I could really write my own
            ticket if I went back to Boulder
            now, couldn't I?



M.S. WENDY &amp; JACK sitting on bed - JACK stands up and turns
to her.


            Shovellings out driveways, work in
            a car wash - any of that appeal to
            you?


            Jack...


            Wendy, I have let you fuck up my
            life so far, but I'm not going to
            let you fuck this up!

He starts to move away.



M.L.S. JACK walks forward from WENDY, sitting on bed.  He
crosses living room and CAMERA PANS R-L with him to steps
leading to front door.  He walks away down steps, opens
front door and walks away along corridor.






M.S. WENDY sitting on bed, starts to cry.  She leans forward
and buries her face in her hands.





JACK moves forward in kitchen.  He sweeps coffee pot off
table onto floor.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before him.  He kicks
coffee pots on floor, then sweeps rings off stove onto floor.
He kicks rings as he leaves kitchen, moving into corridor.
CAMERA TRACKS BACK before him.  He stops and looks ahead.





Empty corridor.  Balloons and streamers strewn about.






HALLORAN standing, phone up to ear.


                   
            Good evening.  Forest Service.


                   
            Hallo.  My name's Dick Halloran.
            I'm the Head Chef up at the Overlook
            Hotel.


                   
            Good evening, Mr. Halloran.  What
            can I do for you?


                   
            Sir, I've been trying to make an
            urgent phone call up there,

He picks up phone and walks R-L to window.  CAMERA PANS with
him.


                   
            but the operator said that the
            phone lines are down.








RANGER sitting at radio with phone to ear.


                   
            Yes, I'm afraid a lot of lines
            around here are down, due to the
            storm.





HALLORAN, phone to ear, at window.


                   
            Well, look sir, I hate to put you
            to any trouble, but there's a
            family up there all by themselves
            with a young kid, and with this
            storm and everything.

HALLORAN moves L-R.  CAMERA TRACKS with him.  He puts phone
on table.


                   
            I'd sure appreciate it if you'd
            give them a call on your radio just
            to see if everything is okay.





RANGER sitting at radio, phone to ear.


                   
            I'd be glad to do that, sir.  Oh
            why don't you call me back in about
            eh twenty minutes?


                   
            Thank you very much.  I'll do that.


                   
            All right, sir.




RANGER puts phone down.





JACK walks forward along corridor to Ballroom.  He turns L-R
into Ballroom - CAMERA TRACKS with him revealing crowded
Ballroom.  MAITRE D standing at entrance.


            Good evening, Mr. Torrance.


            Good evening.

JACK moves L-R across crowded Ballroom - CAMERA TRACKS with
him to LLOYD serving behind bar.  JACK sits at bar.  LLOYD
moves to him.


            Hi Lloyd.  I've been away.  Now I'm
            back.


            Good evening Mr. Torrance.

LLOYD puts dishes of olives and peanuts on bar before JACK.



M.S. JACK over LLOYD.


            It's good to see you.


            It's good to be back, Lloyd.






            What'll it be, sir?



M.S. JACK over LLOYD


            Hair of the dog that big me.









            Bourbon on the rocks.



M.S. JACK over LLOYD


            That'll do her.

JACK takes handful of peanuts and empties them into his
mouth.  LLOYD puts ice into glass.



M.C.S. LLOYD preparing drink.



M.S. JACK over LLOYD.  LLOYD pouring drink.  JACK takes out
his wallet, takes out note and holds it out to LLOYD.  LLOYD
holds up his hand.


            No charge to you, Mr. Torrance.

JACK looks down at note and up to LLOYD.


            No charge?






            Your money's no good here.



M.S. JACK over LLOYD.  JACK looks down at his note then up
at LLOYD.






            Orders from the house.






M.S. JACK over LLOYD.  JACK puts note back into his wallet.


            Orders from the house.

He puts wallet away.






            Drink up, Mr. Torrance.



M.S. JACK over LLOYD.  JACK tucking wallet into his hip
pocket.


            I'm the kind of man likes to know
            who's buying their drinks, Lloyd.






            It's not a matter that concerns
            you, Mr. Torrance - at least not at
            this point.



M.S. JACK over LLOYD.  JACK smiles and picks up his drinks.


            Anything you say, Lloyd.  Anything
            you say.

JACK turns away from bar.



M.L.S. JACK moves away from bar.  He dances forward to
center of room - CAMERA TRACKS after him.  WOMAN enters
cam.R.f.g. and walks away.  WAITER , carrying tray of
drinks, walks forward from b.g.  He bumps into WOMAN.


            Oh!

GRADY staggers forward, colliding with JACK and spilling
drinks down front of JACK's jacket.





            Oh dear, oh dear.  I'm so sorry,
            sir.  Oh!

He puts down tray and takes advocaat glass from JACK.


            Oh dear oh dear... I've made an
            awful mess of your jacket, sir.

GRADY puts glass on tray.


            Oh eh that's all right.  I've got
            plenty of jackets.

GRADY mops JACK's jacket with his serviette.


            I'm afraid it's advocaat sir.  It
            tends to stain.


            Advocaat is it?


            Yes sir.  Look um... I think the
            best thing is to come along to the
            gentlemen's room, sir, and eh...

GRADY bends down and picks up his tray.


            we'll get some water to it, sir.

JACK &amp; GRADY start to walk away to the Gentlemen's.  CAMERA
TRACKS after them.


            Looks as though you might have got
            a spot of it on yourself there,
            Jeevesy old boy.

JACK pats GRADY on his back.


            That doesn't matter, sir.  You're
            the important one.


            Awfully nice of you to say.  Of
            course I intend to change my jacket
            this evening before the fish and
            goose soiree.




JACK &amp; GRADY enter Gentlemen's Toilet.


            Very wise, sir.  Very wise.

JACK exits cam.R behind door.


            Here, I'll just, eh...





Men's toilet.  JACK moves in from cam.L.b.g.  He holds door
open.


            hold this for you there, Jeevesy.

GRADY enters cam.L.


            Thank you, sir.  Thank you.

GRADY walks forward and puts his tray down on basins cam.R.
JACK walks forward.


            Now let's see if we can improve
            this with a little water, sir.

GRADY soaks his serviette under tap.  JACK puts glass down
cam.L and turns to GRADY cam.R.


            Right, I'll just set my bourbon and
            advocaat down right there.

JACK laughs.  GRADY starts to sponge JACK with serviette.


            Won't keep you a moment, sir.


            Fine.

GRADY sponges JACK.


            What do they call you around here,
            Jeevesy?





            Grady, sir.  Delbert Grady.



M.S. JACK over GRADY.  GRADY sponging JACK's jacket.


            Grady?


            Yes, sir.


            Delbert Grady.


            That's right, sir.

GRADY sponges JACK's trousers.


            Eh, Mr. Grady...

JACK clears his throat.


            haven't I seen you somewhere before?


            Why no, sir.  I don't believe so.

GRADY turns cam.L to basins to rinse serviette under tap.
He turns back to JACK and sponges his jacket.


            Ah ha, it's coming off now, sir.


            Eh... Mr. Grady... weren't you once
            the caretaker here?


            Why no, sir.  I don't believe so.

GRADY sponges JACK's trousers.


            You er a married man, are you, Mr.
            Grady?

GRADY sponges JACK's jacket sleeve.





            Yes, sir.  I have a wife and eh two
            daughters, sir.


            And, er... where are they now?


            Oh, they're somewhere around.  I'm
            not quite sure at the moment, sir.

JACK takes serviette away from GRADY and wipes his hand with
it.


            Mr. Grady, you were the caretaker
            here.  I recognize you.  I saw your
            picture in the newspapers.  You
            eh... chopped your wife and
            daughters up into little bits, and
            eh... and you blew your brains out.

JACK throws serviette into basin cam.L.



M.L.S. GRADY over JACK.


            That's strange, sir.  I don't have
            any recollection of that at all.
            Mr. Grady, you were the caretaker
            here.



M.S. JACK over GRADY.


            I'm sorry to differ with you, sir,
            but you are the caretaker.  You
            have always been the caretaker, I
            should know, sir.  I've always been
            here.



M.C.S. JACK laughs.









            Did you know, Mr. Torrance, that
            your son... is attempting to bring
            an outside party into this situation?
            Did you know that?



M.C.S. JACK.  He shakes his head.


            No.






            He is, Mr. Torrance.






            Who?






            A nigger.






            A nigger!






            A nigger cook.











            How?






            Your son has a very great talent.
            I don't think you are aware how
            great it is, but he is attempting
            to use that very talent against
            your will.






            Well, he is a very willful boy.

JACK smiles.






            Indeed, he is, Mr. Torrance.  A
            very willful boy.  A rather naughty
            boy, if I may be so bold, sir.



M.C.S. JACK.  He looks about.


            It's his mother.

JACK looks about.


            She eh... interferes.






            Perhaps they need a good talking
            to, if you don't mind my saying so.
            Perhaps a bit more.









            My girls, sir, they didn't care for
            the Overlook at first.  One of them
            actually stole a packet of matches






            and tried to burn it down.  But I
            corrected them, sir.  And when my
            wife tried to prevent me from doing
            my duty I corrected her.



M.C.S. JACK smiles.









WENDY, crying and holding cigarette, walks R-L from Living
Room into Bedroom.  CAMERA PANS with her.


                   
            We have the Snowcat.  If the
            weather breaks, we might just be
            able to get down the mountain in
            that.

WENDY turns and walks L-R back into LIVING ROOM - CAMERA
TRACKS IN and PANS with her.


                   
            I could call the Forest Rangers
            first and then tell them that we're
            coming so that they could start
            searching for us, in case we didn't
            make it.

WENDY turns and walks R-L into Bedroom - CAMERA PANS with her.





                   
            If Jack won't come with us, we'll
            just have to tell him that we are
            going by ourselves.  That's all
            there is to it.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.

WENDY reacts and turns to cam.R.  She runs away to DANNY's
bedroom door in b.g.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.





WENDY opens door and stands in doorway.


            Danny?


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red Rum.

WENDY moves R-L from door.  CAMERA PANS with her and TRACKS
BACK to reveal DANNY sitting up in bed.  WENDY sits beside
him.


            Red Rum.


            Danny... what's the matter, hon?


            Red Rum.


            Are you having a bad dream?



M.C.S. DANNY over WENDY


            Danny?  Hon?





            Danny's not here, Mrs. Torrance.



M.C.S. WENDY over DANNY


            Come on, hon, wake up.  You just
            had a bad dream.  Everything's okay.



M.C.S. DANNY over WENDY.


            Danny can't wake up, Mrs. Torrance.



M.C.S. WENDY over DANNY.


            Danny, wake up!  Come on, right now,



M.C.S. DANNY over WENDY.


            Wake up.


            Danny's gone away, Mrs. Torrance.



M.C.S. WENDY over DANNY.


            Danny...

She leans forward and puts her arm round him.  She strokes
his hair.





JACK walking L-R past reception desk.  CAMERA TRACKS with
him to office.  He goes in and switches on lights.





                   
            This is KDK 1 calling KDK 12.  KDK
            1 calling KDK 12.  Are you receiving
            me?  This is KDK 1 calling KDK 12.
            KDK 1 calling KDK 12.  Do you read
            me?





JACK walks from office into inner office.  CAMERA TRACKS
after him.  He stops by radio set.


                   
            This is KDK 1 calling KDK 12.  KDK
            1  calling KDK 12.  Are you
            receiving me?



M.S. JACK looking down at radio set.  He tries to take the
cover off.


                   
            KDK 1 calling KDK 12.  KDK 1
            calling KDK 12.  Do you read me?

JACK unscrews back of set and lifts cover off radio.  He
drops it on floor.


                   
            This is KDK 1 calling KDK 12.  KDK
            1 calling KDK 12.

He reaches out to the set with his hand.



M.C.S. JACK's hand touches component in set.  He pulls it out.


                   
            Are you recei...

He pulls two more components out of set.  He rattles them in
his hand, then moves out cam.L.








HALLORAN, phone to ear, walks R-L towards window.  CAMERA
PANS with him.


                   
            Good evening.  Forest Service.


                   
            Hallo, this is Dick Halloran again.
            I called a while ago about the
            folks at the Overlook Hotel.





RANGER sitting at radio, phone to ear.


                   
            Oh yeah.  We tried to contract them
            several times by radio, but they
            didn't answer.

MAN enters from cam.R.f.g. and walks away to b.g.


                   
            Now, maybe they've got their radio
            turned off or they're in a place
            where they can't hear it.  If you
            like me to, I'd be glad to try them
            again later on.





HALLORAN, phone to ear.


                   
            Oh, that's very nice of you.  I'll
            call you back later.  Bye.

He walks L-R.  CAMERA TRACKS &amp; PANS with him.  He puts phone
down on receiver, and puts his hand up to his head.








Superimposition:

8 a.m.





D.C.10 in flight.





HALLORAN sitting in seat.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK to reveal
other passengers in their seats.  HALLORAN turns in his seat
and looks cam.L.  STEWARDESS enters from cam.L and stops
beside HALLORAN.


            Pardon me, miss.  What time will we
            get to Denver?


            We're due to arrive at 8:20, sir.


            Thank you very much.

STEWARDESS walks out cam.R.  HALLORAN looks at his wristwatch.





Shooting through entrance onto JACK seated, back to camera,
typing at table in b.g.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD onto JACK.





D.C.10 moves away along flare path, as it lands.





DURKIN at car by petrol pump.  He moves away R-L to office.








MAN standing cam.L.  MAN sitting reading magazine.  DURKIN
enters.  He stamps snow off his feet and moves L-R.  CAMERA
PANS with him behind counter.  He picks up ringing phone.


                   
            Durkin's garage.


                   
            Hello, can I speak to Larry?


                   
            Speaking.





HALLORAN at telephone booth, phone to ear.


                   
            Hello Larry.  This is Dick, Dick
            Halloran.





DURKIN, phone to ear, behind counter.


                   
            Dick, how are you doing?  How's the
            weather down there?





HALLORAN, phone to ear.


                   
            I'm not in Florida, Larry.  I'm
            calling from Stapleton Airport.








DURKIN, phone to ear, leaning on counter.


                   
            What the hell are you doing down
            there?





HALLORAN, phone to ear.


                   
            Well, I just got in from Miami, and
            I've got to get up to the Overlook
            today.  What's the weather like up
            there?





DURKIN, phone to ear.


                   
            Well, the snow ploughs are keeping
            things moving in town, but the
            mountain roads are completely
            blocked.





HALLORAN, phone to ear.


                   
            That means I'm going to need a
            snowcat to get up there, Larry.
            Can you fix me up with one?





DURKIN, phone to ear.





                   
            What's the big deal about getting
            up there today, especially in this
            kind of weather?





HALLORAN, phone to ear.


                   
            Larry, just between you and me,
            we've got a very serious problem
            with the people who are taking care
            of the place.  They've turned out
            to be completely unreliable assholes.
            Ullman phoned me last night, and
            I'm supposed to go up there and
            find out if they have to be replaced.





DURKIN, phone to ear, looks at his watch.


                   
            How long is it going to take you to
            get up here?





HALLORAN phone to ear.


                   
            Oh about five hours.  I'm gonna
            rent a car here at the airport.





DURKIN, phone to ear.





                   
            Okay, Dick - I'll take care of it.





HALLORAN phone to ear.


                   
            Oh thanks a lot, Larry.  I really
            appreciate that.





DURKIN phone to ear.


                   
            That's all right.  Drive carefully.

He puts phone down.





HALLORAN's car moving forward along snow covered road.
CAMERA TRACKS BACK with it.


            Well, good morning to you, Hal and
            Charlie on Radio 63, KHOW Denver





HALLORAN sitting behind wheel as he drives along road L-R.


            and, Charlie, we have what you call
            your bad day out there.  What you
            call your heavy snow, snowing hard
            throughout the eh Denver metro area.
            Many of the mountain passes - Wolf
            Creek, and Red Mountain passes are
            already closed...






M.S. Shooting from behind HALLORAN through windscreen as he
drives along road, passing overturned truck cam.L.


            and the chain law is in effect
            right now at the Eisenhower Tunnel.
            I guess as we've just heard from
            the news forecast, Charlie, a few
            of the flights are still landing
            out at Stapleton International
            Airport, and, with these early
            storms like this, I guess the
            entire airport will probably be
            closed within the hour.  Yeah,
            they're just not prepared.  The
            storm will continue throughout the
            day, and the national weather
            service... has declared a stopmans
            and travelers advisory... for all
            areas outlying the Denver metro
            region - get the cows in the barn.
            There you go.  Many businesses...





DANNY &amp; WENDY sitting at table watching T.V. Set cam.L.
WENDY inhales cigarette and looks at her watch.  She puts
cigarette out cam.R.


            Hon,

WENDY strokes his hair, then takes hold of his chin and
turns his face to her.


            ...listen to me for a minute, will
            you, hon?

She lowers her hand from his chin and strokes his hair.


            I'm just going to go and talk to
            Daddy for a few minutes and I'll be
            right back.  I want you to just
            stay here and watch your cartoons,
            okay?

She strokes his hair.


            Okay, hon?




DANNY holds up his forefinger and wiggles it.


            Yes, Mrs. Torrance.

WENDY kisses DANNY's head.


            All right.  Now I'll be back in
            just about five minutes.  I'm gonna
            lock the door behind me.

She kisses his head and strokes his hair - then stands up
and walks away to door.  She stops and picks up a baseball
bat from cam.R.  She walks away through open doorway, and
exits cam.R.





WENDY, carrying baseball bat, walks away into Lounge.  As
she goes, she turns and looks about her - CAMERA TRACKS
after her.


            Jack...?

She looks about and then moves L-R past table, with his
typewriter on it.  She walks L-R behind pillar and appears
again on the other side.  CAMERA TRACKS with her.


            Jack...?

WENDY stops and looks about.



M.L.S. WENDY, holding bat, in f.g.  She turns and walks away
to JACK's typewriter on table in b.g.



M.S. Low Angle - JACK's typewriter in f.g.  WENDY moves
forward into shot.  She looks down at sheet of paper in
typewriter.



M.C.S. Sheet of paper in typewriter with repetition of line
on it, reading: "ALL WORK AND NO PLAY MAKES JACK A DULL BOY."




Sheet of paper is turned up, showing repetition of line.
Again sheet of paper is turned up showing repetition of line.



M.S. Low Angle - WENDY looking down at sheet of paper in
typewriter.  She looks cam.R - then moves to cam.R.



M.S. Sheets of paper, filling cardboard box.  CAMERA TRACKS
IN on top sheet, showing repetition of the line "ALL WORK
AND NO PLAY MAKES JACK A DULL BOY." filling sheet.



M.S. Low Angle WENDY looking down at box of paper in f.g.
She holds up top sheet and looks at it - then puts it down
in box.



M.C.S. Sheets of paper filling box.  WENDY's hand enters
cam.L.f.g.  She flicks through sheets of paper and sees they
are all filled with repetition of line: "ALL WORK AND NO




M.S. Low Angle - WENDY flicking through sheets of paper in
box.



M.S. Pillar.  CAMERA TRACKS R-L revealing WENDY, back to
camera, looking through sheets of paper in box on table in
M.L.S.  JACK enters cam.R.f.g.


            How do you like it?

WENDY SCREAMS and turns round to face JACK.


            Jack!


            How do you like it?

JACK moves away towards table.  WENDY walks R-L along table.



M.S. JACK moves forward.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before him.





            What are you doing down here?

He stops by chair and puts his hand on back of it.



M.S. WENDY holding bat.


            I just eh... wanted...



M.S. JACK - hand on back of chair.


            ...to talk to you.

JACK moves R-L to table.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK.


            Okay.  Let's talk.

JACK flicks through sheets of paper in box - then looks
towards WENDY.


            What do you want to talk about?



M.S. WENDY holding bat.









            I can't really remember.


            You can't remember.

JACK moves forward L-R.  CAMERA PANS with him.


            No, I can't.






M.S. WENDY, holding bat, moves L-R.  CAMERA PANS with her.





DANNY sitting at table.  CAMERA TRACKS IN on him.


            Maybe it was about Danny.  Maybe it
            was about him.





Blood clear from camera lens revealing furniture floating
about on river of blood.


            I think we should discuss Danny.





Low Angle Door with word "MURDER" scrawled in reverse on door.





Furniture floating on river of blood towards camera.


            I think... we should discuss what
            should be done with him.





JACK moves forward.


            What should be done with him?



M.S. WENDY holding bat gives nervous laugh.






M.S. JACK moves forward R-L - CAMERA PANS &amp; TRACKS BACK with
him.


            I don't know.


            I don't think that's true.  I think
            you have some very definite ideas
            about what should be done with
            Danny... and I'd like to know what
            they are.



M.S. WENDY holding bat moves back R-L.  CAMERA PANS with her.
She weeps.


            Well I... I think maybe he should
            be taken to a doctor.






            You think maybe he should be taken
            to a doctor?






            Yes...






            When do you think maybe he should
            be taken to a doctor?



M.S. WENDY holding bat.


            As soon as possible?









            As soon as possible.


            Jack...



M.S. WENDY holding bat.


            ...please...



M.S. JACK moves forward - CAMERA TRACKS BACK before him.


            You believe his health might be at
            stake?



M.S. WENDY holding bat moves back.


            Ye...yes.



M.S. JACK moves forward.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before him.


            And you are concerned about him?



M.S. WENDY holding bat moves back.


            Yes.



M.S. JACK points to himself as he moves forward.


            And are you concerned about me?



M.S. WENDY holding bat moves backwards.





            Of course I am.


            Of course you are.



M.S. JACK moves forward.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before him.  He
points to himself and gestures.


            Have you ever thought about my
            responsibilities?


            Oh Jack, what are you talking about?


            Have you ever had a single moment's
            thought about my responsibilities?
            Have you ever thought for a single
            solitary moment about my
            responsibilities to my employers?



M.S. WENDY holding bat moves backwards.



M.S. JACK moves forward - CAMERA TRACKS BACK before him.


            Has it ever occurred to you that I
            have agreed to look after the
            Overlook Hotel until May the first?
            Does it matter to you at all that
            the owners have placed their
            complete confidence and trust in
            me, and that I have signed a letter
            of agreement, a contract, in which
            I have accepted that responsibility?



M.S. WENDY holding bat moves backwards L-R to foot of stairs.
CAMERA PANS with her.  She moves onto first step.


            Do you have the slightest idea what
            a moral and ethical principal is?
            Do you?






M.S. JACK moves forward L-R.  CAMERA PANS with him.


            Has it ever occurred to you what
            would happen to my future, if I
            were to fail to live up to my
            responsibilities?



M.S. WENDY holding bat backs up stairs.


            Has it ever occurred to you?

JACK moves in cam.R.f.g.


            Has it?

WENDY swinging bat before her backs up stairs.  JACK moves
after her.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after them.


            Stay away from me!


            Why?


            I just want to go back to my room.


            Why?

WENDY sobs.


            Well... I'm very confused, and I
            just need a chance to think things
            over.



M.S. High Angle JACK over WENDY.  He moves forward up stairs.
She backs away.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK and UP before them.


            You've had your whole fucking life
            to think things over - what's good
            a few minutes more going to do you
            now?





            Jack... stay away from me... please.

JACK reaches up to her.


            Don't hurt me!  Don't hurt me!


            I'm not going to hurt you.

WENDY swings bat in front of her as she backs up stairs.


            Stay away from me,


            Wendy!


            Stay away...!


            Darling, light of my life, I'm not
            going to hurt you.  You didn't let
            me finish my sentence.  I said 'I'm
            not going to hurt you... I'm just
            going to bash your brains in!'  I'm
            going to bash them right the fuck in.

WENDY waves bat in front of her.  JACK laughs.


            Stay away from me!



M.S. Low Angle WENDY swinging bat in front of her, backs up
stairs.  JACK follows her - CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after them.


            Stay away from me!


            I'm not going to hurt you.


            Stay away from me!



M.S. High Angle JACK over WENDY.  She swings bat in front of
her, as she backs away and he follows her.





            Stay away from me!  Please...


            Stop swinging the bat.


            Stay away from me.


            Put the bat down, Wendy.


            Stop it!


            Wendy give me the bat.


            Stay... stay away!


            Give me the bat.



M.S. Low Angle WENDY over JACK.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD as
they come up stairs.


            Stay away from me.


            Give me the bat.


            Jack, stay away from me!


            Stop swinging the bat.


            Get down.



M.S. High Angle JACK over WENDY.  She swings bat in front of
her as they move up stairs.  CAMERA TRACKS with them.


            Give me the bat.


            Go away from me.





            Wendy...


            Go away.


            Give me the bat.


            Go away.


            Give me the bat.

JACK reaches up with hand.  WENDY hits his hand with bat.
SHE SCREAMS.  HE YELLS and grabs his wrist.



M.S. Low Angle WENDY over JACK.


            Goddamn!

WENDY hits JACK on head with bat.



M.S. High Angle JACK over WENDY - he throws up hand and
leans back.



M.L.S. Low Angle WENDY over JACK.  He falls backwards down
stairs.  CAMERA PANS L-R with him as he somersaults down
stairs, stopping face down on half landing.



M.L.S. High Angle WENDY back to camera at top of stairs.
JACK lying facedown on half landing.


            Oh...oh!





JACK lying on his back on floor.  He GROANS as he is dragged
along R-L.  CAMERA TRACKS with him.








WENDY, holding JACK's ankles, drags him backwards to food
store door.  She undoes bolt, then tries to open door.  JACK




M.S. Low Angle WENDY tugging at handle.  JACK GROANS OFF.



M.C.S. WENDY tugging at handle.  She looks down cam.R.



M.C.S. JACK, lying on his back on the floor GROANING, starts
to come to.  His eyes open and he lifts his head up.



M.C.S. WENDY, tugging at door handle.



M.C.S. WENDY's hand on handle.  She takes out pin on chain
in handle and tugs handle open.



M.S. WENDY swings door open.  Then she takes hold of JACK's
ankles.






            Hey... what are you doing?



M.S. WENDY pulling JACK by the legs into food store.


            Ohhh... what are you doing?



M.S. High Angle JACK on his back being dragged through door
into food store.





            Hey, wait a minute... What are you
            doing?

WENDY puts his feet down and moves away to door.


            What are you doing?



M.S. Low Angle WENDY's feet and legs move forward from
JACK - She exits cam.R.f.g.  JACK rolls over onto his elbow.
Door closes in f.g.



M.S. JACK on floor in f.g.  WENDY in b.g. closes the door.
JACK gets onto his feet.  He GROANS and grips his R. ankle,
staggering against cardboard boxes.  They fall down onto him.





WENDY puts pin in handle, and backs L-R away from door.
CAMERA PANS with her.


            Hey, wait a minute!

WENDY turns away and looks about.


            What are you doing?

WENDY sees knife in rack on wall and lifts it out of rack.
She turns to face food store door.


            Open the door.

WENDY backs away to table.


            Goddamit!  Let me out of here!
            Open the goddam door.

WENDY, resting one hand on table, weeps as she sinks to her
knees.








Low Angle - JACK.


            Wendy, listen.  Let me out of here
            and I'll forget the whole goddam
            thing.  It'll be just like nothing
            ever happened.





WENDY kneeling by table.  She is weeping and puts her hand
up to her head.





Low Angle JACK listens to her weeping.


            Wendy, baby...

He puts hand up to head.


            I think you hurt my head real bad.

He takes his hand away from his head.


            I'm dizzy.  I need a doctor.





WENDY weeping as she kneels by table.


            Honey... don't leave me in here.

WENDY stands up.  CAMERA TILTS UP with her.


            I'm gonna go now -

WENDY walks R-L.  CAMERA PANS with her to food store room
door.





            I'm going to try and get... get
            Danny down to the Sidewinder... in
            the Snowcat today.

She weeps.


            I'll bring back a doctor.








            Wendy...


            I'm gonna go now.


            Wendy...





WENDY weeping turns to food store door.


            Yes?





JACK smiling.


            You've got a big surprise coming to
            you.

He laughs.


            You're not going anywhere.

He laughs.








WENDY by food store door.


            Go check out the Snowcat and the
            radio and see what I mean.

He laughs off.


            Go check it out!

He laughs off.  WENDY exits cam.L.





JACK laughing.


            Go check it out!

He laughs.


            Go check it out!

He laughs.





WENDY carrying knife runs forward - CAMERA PANS L-R with her
as she runs to door.  She forces it open.





WENDY forces door open against snow and walks out on snow.
CAMERA PANS L-R with her to edge of porch.  She runs away to
b.g.



M.L.S. WENDY runs L-R along front of hotel - CAMERA TRACKS
with her.








Snowcat in garage.  WENDY seen through open doorway.  She
runs forward and enters garage, carrying knife.  She stops
at entrance.  Then she moves L-R towards Snowcat, and picks
up distributor cap.  CAMERA TRACKS IN on her, reacting to
damaged distributor cap.





Superimposed over:

4 p.m.





Overlook Hotel in b.g.  Snow and trees in f.g.





JACK asleep on sacks.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK.  KNOCK ON DOOR
OFF.  JACK stirs and rubs his eyes.  KNOCK ON DOOR OFF.
Jack sits up.


            Wendy?

CAMERA TRACKS BACK as JACK feels his R. ankle.


            It's Grady, Mr. Torrance.  Delbert
            Grady.


            Grady... oh.

JACK puts his hand up on shelf.


            Oh Grady... right.  Grady... er...

JACK stands up and moves R-L behind shelves towards door.
CAMERA TRACKS with him.


            Hullo Grady.

JACK moves R-L to door and leans on it with his hand.





            Mr. Torrance, I see you can hardly
            have taken care of the...



M.C.S. JACK by door.


            business we discussed.

He moves back R-L from door.


            No need to rub it in, Mr. Grady.
            I'll deal with that situation as
            soon as I get out of here.


            Will you indeed, Mr. Torrance.

He puts his hand up to his head.


            I wonder.  I have my doubts.

He lowers his hand from his head.


            I and others have come to believe...
            that your heart is not in this,
            that you haven't the belly for it.

JACK laughs.


            Just give me one more chance to
            prove it, Mr. Grady.  That's all I
            ask.


            Your wife appears to be stronger
            than we imagined, Mr. Torrance.
            Somewhat more resourceful, she
            seems to have got the better of you.


            For the moment, Mr. Grady.  Only
            for the moment.





            I fear that you will have to deal
            with this matter in the harshest
            possible way, Mr. Torrance.  I fear
            that is the only thing to do.


            There's nothing I look forward to
            with the greater pleasure, Mr. Grady.


            You give your word on that do you,
            Mr. Torrance?

JACK nods his head.


            I give you my word.







HALLORAN driving Snowcat forward along snow-covered road
between banks of trees.





HALLORAN driving Snowcat L-R along road.



M.S. Shooting from behind HALLORAN sitting cam.L through
windscreen, with wipers working, as he moves forward along
snow-covered road.  Trees on either side of road.





DANNY moves away R-L towards his MOTHER asleep in bed.
CAMERA PANS with him.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red
            Rum.

DANNY stops beside WENDY asleep in bed.





            Red Rum.

WENDY stirs in bed.  DANNY reaches out with his hand for
knife on table cam.R of bed.


            Red Rum.

DANNY holds up knife.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.

He feels blade.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.

He takes hand away from blade.


            Red Rum.

He turns away from bed and holding knife up walks L-R.
CAMERA PANS with him.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red
            Rum.  Red Rum.

He stops by dressing table.


            Red Rum.

He picks up lipstick from dressing table.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.

He turns away from dressing table.


            Red Rum.

DANNY walks R-L away to door - CAMERA PANS with him.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red Rum.








DANNY holding knife and lipstick at door.  WENDY asleep in
bed in b.g.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.

He starts to write with lipstick the word "MURDER" IN
reverse on the door.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red
            Rum.  Red Rum.  Red Rum.

He finishes writing word and looks at word.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.

He turns and walks away to WENDY asleep in bed.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red Rum.

WENDY wakes and sits up with a SHRIEK.



M.S. DANNY beside WENDY in bed.


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red Rum.

WENDY gets out of bed and takes knife away from him.


            Danny.  Danny, stop it.  Danny!


            Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red Rum.  Red
            Rum.

WENDY puts her arms round DANNY and pulls him towards her.
She looks over his shoulder.


            Eh...

She reacts - CAMERA ZOOMS IN on her face.






M.S. WENDY's P.O.V.  The word "MURDER" written by DANNY on
door - reflected in mirror.  CAMERA ZOOMS IN on word.  SOUND




M.C.S. WENDY shrieks and looks cam.L.  She puts her hand up
to DANNY's head.





JACK swings axe at front door of his apartment.





WENDY holding DANNY in her arms gets up off bed.





JACK swings axe at front door of apartment.





WENDY, with DANNY in her arms, looks about, then moves to
door with "MURDER" in reverse written on it.  She opens door
and goes into bathroom, with DANNY, closing door behind her.





WENDY, with DANNY clinging to her, closes the door.  Then
she bolts and locks it.





JACK swings axe at door and splinters a panel.





WENDY &amp; DANNY move R-L from door to window.  She drops knife
in basin as she passes it.  CAMERA PANS with them.




WENDY unbolts window and raises the bottom part.





WENDY tries to force bottom part of window higher up.





DANNY clinging to WENDY looks over his shoulder as he hears
axe splintering door OFF.





JACK swings axe at splintered panel on door.





WENDY looking out of window.



L.S. HOTEL.  WENDY at bathroom window.  She draws back into
bathroom.





JACK swings axe at splintered panel on door.





JACK pulls piece of wood away from splintered panel, and
looks through gap.



M.C.S. JACK at gap in panel.


            Wendy, I'm home.




He looks down.  CAMERA TILTS DOWN - he removes a piece of
wood with hand and then reaches in and unlocks door.





WENDY, back to camera, lifts DANNY up to open window.





WENDY pushes DANNY out through open window onto snow.  She
lets him go and he slides L-R down snow.  He stands up at
the bottom, and looks up at WENDY at window.



M.S. WENDY struggling to get out of open window.





JACK, carrying axe, moves up stairs from open front door.
CAMERA TRACKS BACK with him.





WENDY struggling to get out of bathroom window.  She goes
back into bathroom.



M.S. DANNY looking up cam.L at bathroom window.





JACK, carrying axe, walks away across Living Room into
Bedroom.  CAMERA TRACKS after him.


            Come out, come out, wherever you are!








WENDY trying to force window up higher.  She looks over her
shoulder, then puts her head down to open window.





WENDY tries to get out of open window.





JACK enters cam.R.  He stops at Bathroom door.  HE RAPS ON






WENDY with head out of open Bathroom window.


            Danny, I can't get out!



L.S. WENDY at Bathroom window cam.L.  DANNY at foot of slope
of snow looking up cam.L.


            Run, run and hide.  Run, quick!

DANNY runs away L-R.





JACK at Bathroom door.


            Little pigs, little pigs, let me
            come in!





WENDY by open window.  She moves L-R to basin.  CAMERA PANS
with her.  She picks up knife and moves R-L to side of door.




CAMERA PANS with her.





JACK at Bathroom door.


            Not by the hair on your chiny,
            chin, chin.  Then I'll huff, and
            I'll puff



M.S. JACK holding axe back to camera at Bathroom door.


            and I'll blow your house in.

He swings axe back.



M.S. JACK swings axe twice at Bathroom door.  WENDY SCREAMS






WENDY standing at side of door.  JACK's axe appear through
door.  WENDY SCREAMS.  JACK's axe repeatedly appears and
splinters door.  WENDY screams.


            Jack.  Please.  Don't... Don't...

Head of axe appears through splintered door.  WENDY SCREAMS.


            Don't!  Oh!  Please

Head of axe appears again through door.  WENDY SCREAMS.


            Stop!



M.C.S. Splintered door panel.


            Jack!




JACK in b.g. swings axe at door and smashes away the
splintered wood.


            Stop it!  Stop it!





JACK swings axe at splintered door.


            Stop it!

JACK moves L-R to gap in splintered door.  WENDY SCREAMS OFF.





JACK's face at gap in splintered door.


            Here's Johnny!



M.C.S. WENDY holding knife SCREAMS.



M.C.S. JACK's smiling face at gap in splintered door.  He
moves backwards and reaches in through gap.



M.C.S. JACK's hand in through gap in door to key on inside
of door.



M.S. WENDY strikes down with knife.



M.C.S. JACK's hand on key.  WENDY's knife slashes across
back of his hand, and withdraws cam.R.  JACK's hand moves to
gap in door.  JACK YELLS OFF.






M.C.S. JACK's face at gap in door.  HE IS YELLING.  He looks
down and turns away from door.





Shooting from behind HALLORAN sitting back to camera L.f.g.
through windscreen as he drives along snow-covered road.





WENDY at side of door.  She looks cam.R as she hears
HALLORAN's Snowcat approaching OFF.





JACK at Bathroom door - he turns round as he hears HALLORAN's
Snowcat approaching OFF.  He looks down cam.L.





HALLORAN's Snowcat moves R-L along snow-covered road.
CAMERA TRACKS with it revealing Overlook Hotel in b.g.





JACK looking cam.R.  He turns away to splintered door.






WENDY at side of door listening.





HALLORAN's Snowcat moves R-L along front of Hotel.  CAMERA
TRACKS with it.  Snowcat stops.








DANNY runs forward along corridor.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK
before him.  He runs into kitchen - stops and moves L-R to
oven.  He kneels down beside it.  CAMERA PANS with him.
DANNY slides oven door open R-L and crawls into it.



M.C.S. DANNY in oven slides door R-L.



M.S. Oven door sliding L-R.



M.S. JACK holding axe limps R-L through kitchen.  CAMERA
TRACKS with him.





WENDY sobbing at side of door - then she moves to door and
slashes at it with knife.





HALLORAN walking R-L.  CAMERA TRACKS with him.  He moves to
door left open by WENDY.  He pulls it open wide and exits
into Hotel.





JACK holding axe moves forward - CAMERA PANS R-L and TRACKS
with him.  He moves away up stairs.


            Hallo!

JACK at top of stairs.


            Anybody here?

JACK moves away from stairs CAMERA TRACKS after him.  JACK
moves R-L and looks down at Lobby.  CAMERA TRACKS after him.





            Hallo!  Anybody here?



M.L.S. HALLORAN moves forward along corridor.  CAMERA TRACKS



            Hallo!

HALLORAN moves R-L to entrance to Lobby.


            Anybody here?

HALLORAN moves away into Lobby.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after
him.


            Hallo!  Hallo!  Anybody here?

JACK, holding axe, YELLS as he steps from behind pillar
cam.R and moves towards HALLORAN.



M.S. JACK YELLING as he swings axe at HALLORAN.



M.C.S. HALLORAN's chest - axe pierces raincoat and blood
oozes out.



M.C.S. DANNY, with his mouth wide open.



M.S. JACK over HALLORAN.  JACK holding onto shaft of axe.



M.C.S. HALLORAN, with his mouth wide open.



M.C.S. DANNY, with his mouth wide open.






M.S. JACK over HALLORAN, holding onto shaft of axe.



M.C.S. HALLORAN, with his mouth wide open, sinks down out of
shot.



M.C.S. DANNY, with his mouth wide open.



M.C.S. JACK rises up into shot.



M.L.S. JACK holding axe standing beside body of HALLORAN on
floor.  JACK limps forward.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before him.


            Danny!  Danny boy!

He stops at corridor to kitchen.


            Danny!



M.L.S. JACK back to camera in R.f.g.  DANNY climbs out of
oven in b.g.  JACK moves forward.  DANNY exits cam.R.f.g.
JACK limps away.  CAMERA TRACKS IN after him.


            Danny!  Danny!





High Angle WENDY runs up stairs L-R.  She pauses on landing.


            Danny!

CAMERA TRACKS BACK before WENDY as she goes up next flight
of stairs.  She stops at top of stairs and looks along
landing.



M.L.S. WENDY'S P.O.V.  Shooting along landing into open
doorway of bedroom.




MAN, dressed in Dog's costume, kneeling at foot of bed.  He
leans back and looks towards her.  MAN, in evening dress,
leans forward and looks at WENDY.  CAMERA ZOOMS IN on them.



M.S. WENDY, holding knife, at top of stairs backs away -
then turns and runs away along corridor, exiting cam.L at end.





JACK, holding axe, limps forward and moves L-R through
entrance.  He walks away to open door.  CAMERA TRACKS after
him.  He stops in doorway.





Shooting from door.  HALLORAN's Snowcat in b.g.  CAMERA PANS






JACK, holding axe, at open doorway.  He comes in and moves
L-R to switch panel on wall.  He opens cover and presses
switches down.  He leans towards open doorway and watches
lights going on outside.





DANNY crouched behind track of HALLORAN's Snowcat.  He peers
round corner.





JACK limps to open doorway and stops.


            Danny!








DANNY by track of HALLORAN's Snowcat.  He moves away L-R.



M.L.S. JACK limps away from door.


            Danny!



M.S. DANNY runs L-R and exits cam.R.



M.S. JACK limping L-R from Hotel.  CAMERA TRACKS with him.


            Danny!



M.L.S. DANNY running away L-R across snow.  CAMERA PANS with
him.  He runs into Maze.



M.S. JACK limping L-R.  CAMERA TRACKS with him.  Hotel in b.g.





DANNY running away through Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS after him.
He looks back over his shoulder.



M.S. JACK in the Maze.  He limps forward.  CAMERA TRACKS
BACK before him.


            Danny!  I'm coming.  I'm coming Dan!

He looks down.



M.C.S. DANNY's footprints in snow.  CAMERA TILTS UP &amp; TRACKS
FORWARD along DANNY's footprints.






M.C.S. DANNY's feet and legs running away through Maze.






WENDY, carrying knife, runs forward into kitchen.  She looks
towards stairs in b.g.


            Danny!

WENDY stumbles forward through coffee pots and rings on
floor.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before her.


            Oh!

WENDY turns R-L.  CAMERA TRACKS with her.  She moves away
along corridor.  CAMERA TRACKS after her.  She stops at
corner.  CAMERA CONTINUES PAST her revealing HALLORAN lying
dead on floor of lobby.



M.C.S. WENDY reacts.



M.L.S. HALLORAN's body lying on floor.  CAMERA ZOOMS IN on it.



M.C.S. WENDY looks about.  She moves away R-L.  CAMERA PANS
with her.  She SCREAMS and turns to cam.R.  CAMERA WHIP PANS
L-R onto M.L.S. INJURED GUEST.



M.S. WENDY reacting - knife trembles in her hand.



M.C.S. INJURED GUEST, with scar running down his head and
face.  He raises glass he is holding.


            Great party, isn't it?






M.S. WENDY SCREAMING turns and runs away.





DANNY running away through Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS after him.


            Danny!  Danny!  I'm coming!



M.S. JACK limps forward in Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK before
him.


            You can't get away.  I'm right
            behind you.





WENDY runs forward.


            Danny!

WENDY runs forward and then moves R-L.  CAMERA PANS with
her - she stops cam.R.f.g. and SCREAMS.



M.C.S. WENDY looking about.



M.L.S. SKELETONS sitting in chairs.  Bottle of champagne on
table in f.g.



M.S. SKELETONS sitting at table with bottle and glasses on it.



M.L.S. SKELETONS sitting in chairs round tables with bottles
on them.








JACK limps away through Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after
him.



M.S. DANNY steps backwards in his footprints in snow.



M.S. JACK limps forward laughing.


            Danny!



M.L.S. DANNY stepping backwards in his footprints in snow.
He jumps L-R landing in snow, and crawls L-R - brushing his
traces in the snow out with his hands.





WENDY holding knife runs forward.  She slows down as she
nears f.g.  She moves R-L.  CAMERA PANS with her to open
door.  She stops by doorway and looks along corridor towards
lift doors in b.g.



M.S. Lift doors.  Blood gushes in cam.L and surges forward
along floor.



M.C.S. WENDY reacts.



M.S. Lift doors.  Blood gushes in cam.L and cam.R - surging
forward in wave towards camera.





DANNY sitting leaning against side of Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS
R-L revealing JACK, holding axe, cam.R.b.g.  He limps R-L
and moves away along Maze.






M.S. DANNY's footprints in the snow - CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD
and stops when footprints end.  CAMERA TILTS UP to snow
without footprints.



M.C.S. JACK - he looks about then back and forwards - and
finally cam.R.


            Danny!

He looks cam.L.



M.C.S. DANNY crouched against side of Maze.


            Danny!



M.S. JACK - he looks about then cam.L.


            Danny!



M.L.S. JACK limps L-R and exits cam.R.



M.S. DANNY appears from behind mound of snow and moves
forward R-L.



M.L.S. DANNY's P.O.V.  Empty Maze.



M.S. DANNY moves away R-L from mound of snow.  CAMERA PANS
with him.  He runs away along Maze.



M.S. Footprints in snow in Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD
along footprints.






M.L.S. JACK, back to camera, limping away along Maze.
CAMERA TRACKS after him.



M.S. JACK limps forward along Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK
before him.



M.S. CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD along Maze.



M.S. DANNY runs forward along Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK.



M.L.S. JACK moves to opening cam.R.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD -
he turns and moves R-L to opening cam.L.  CAMERA PANS with
him.  He stops and turns - then moves L-R.  CAMERA PANS with
him and TRACKS after him as he limps along MAZE.





WENDY sobbing and holding knife runs away to HALLORAN's
Snowcat in b.g.  CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD after her.  She stops
by Snowcat and looks about.





DANNY runs forward in Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK.  DANNY
looks over his shoulder and falls down in snow at entrance.





WENDY standing by HALLORAN's Snowcat.  She throws down knife.


            Danny!  Danny!

She runs forward and out cam.R.f.g.



M.L.S. DANNY lying on snow at entrance to Maze.  He gets up
and runs R-L.  CAMERA PANS with him.





            Mommy...


            Danny, come here!


            Mommy... Mommy...!


            Danny!

DANNY runs R-L into WENDY's arms as she kneels on snow.


            Mommy!


            Oh!

WENDY hugs and kisses DANNY.


            Oh Danny!





JACK holding axe limps forward - CAMERA TRACKS BACK.


            Danny!  Where...







WENDY holding DANNY moves R-L to HALLORAN's Snowcat.  CAMERA
PANS with them.  WENDY opens door of Snowcat and lifts DANNY
up to cab.





JACK GROANING staggers away along Maze - CAMERA TRACKS after
him.


            Danny!




He stumbles and lies in snow.  He struggles up to his feet.





Snowcat with lights on moves R-L in front of Hotel, then
turns to cam.R.  JACK SHOUTS INAUDIBLE OFF.





JACK staggers forward.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK - INDISTINCT
SHOUTS.  He GROANS as he moves forward R-L.





Snowcat drives away down road.  JACK INAUDIBLE SHOUTS OFF.





JACK staggers forward along Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS BACK -




M.L.S. JACK staggers away along Maze.  CAMERA TRACKS after
him.  INDISTINCT MOANS.  He slumps down cam.L against side
of Maze.





JACK sitting up to his chest in snow dead.  Snow and icicles
on his face.





Entrance to Gold Ballroom - CAMERA TRACKS FORWARD through
entrance to photographs on wall.  CAMERA TRACKS IN close on
photograph of Guests at Ball.






M.S. Photograph of Guests at Ball.



M.C.S. Photograph of YOUNG MAN in dinner jacket.  CAMERA



                        JULY 4th BALL







