





by

Bruce Joel Rubin








A swarm of helicopters swoops out of a yellow sky and deposits an army 
of men over a Vietnamese hillside.

The SOLDIERS scramble over the terraced rice paddies for the protection 
of the jungle. Falling into coulmns, like strands of soldier ants, 
seventy-five men, at combat readiness, assemble on the edge of a 
sweltering wilderness.

It is dusk. The mood is lazy, soporific. Members of one platoon huddle 
close to the ground smoking a joint.


		Strong stuff.


			(to JACOB, a soldier
			squatting several yards
			away)
		Hey, Professor, how many times can
		you shit in an hour?


		Don't bug 'im.


		Where are those gooks already?


		Some offensive. I don't even think
		they're out there.


		Jesus, this grass is something else.

JACOB SINGER returns to the group, pulling up his pants.


		Why even bother to pull 'em up?


		You jackin' off out there again, huh
		Jake?


		Hey, get off his back.


		It's called philosophizing, right
		Professor?

JACOB gives them the finger.


		Up yours, you adolescent scum.

Laughter.


		Mount your bayonets.


			
		Oh shit!


		Goddam!


		Gimme that joint!


		Hey, something's wrong.


		What is it?


		My head.


		It's nerves. Take another toke.

GEORGE reaches out, extending a joint. Suddenly he gasps and falls to 
the ground, his body convulsing uncontrollably. The others stand back, 
startled. JACOB grabs him and shoves a rifle barrel between his 
chattering teeth.


		What's going on?

Before anyone can answer JERRY grabs his head, screaming. He turns 
frantically in all directions.


		Help me! Help me!


		What the hell ... ?

In seconds JERRY is spinning wildly out of control, his head shaking 
into a terrific blur. He crashes into FRANK with the force of a truck. 
FRANK slams into the ground as all the air rushes from his lungs. He 
begins gasping and hyperventilating. His eyes grow wide and frenzied as 
he gulps for air. Fear and confusion sweep across his face. The MEN 
watch, horrified, as FRANK's terror escalates beyond reason into all-
out panic.

Suddenly FRANK begins howling. He lunges for his bayonet and, without 
warning, attacks the MEN around him.


		God Almighty!

PAUL spins out of the way as FRANK's bayonet impales the ground. JACOB 
jumps on top of FRANK and wrestles him into the tall grass. PAUL rushes 
to his assistance.

JACOB stares at FRANK's face as FRANK struggles beneath him. It is the 
face of a madman.


		Good God! What's happening?

The sudden chaos is intensified by the sound of fighting erupting 
behind them. Guns crackle and bursts of light penetrate the darkening 
sky.


		Behind you! Look out! This is it!

The MEN spin around. PAUL panics and jumps to his feet, leaving JACOB 
alone with FRANK. FRANK's eyes burn with demonic force as he gathers 
his strength.


		Don't leave me.

Dark figures, silhouetted by the setting sun, are storming at them. 
SOLDIERS squint to see. It is a horrifying vision.


		They're coming!

Gunfire explodes on all sides. Suddenly PAUL flips out. He begins 
screaming uncontrollably, ripping at his clothes and skin. FRANK is 
struggling like four men and JACOB is weakening in his effort to 
restrain him. Bayonets glimmer in the exchange of fire. Bodies fall. 
More bodies keep coming. The first wave is upon them.

ROD shoots into the air. Shadowy forms hurl forward screaming like 
banshees. ROD, squinting, jabs with his bayonet, piercing the belly of 
his attacker. Agonizing cries accompany his fall. ROD yanks the bayonet 
out and stabs again.

In the midst of this madness FRANK shoots to his feet and slams the 
butt of his rifle into JACOB's back. There is a cracking sound. JACOB's 
eyes freeze with pain. His hands rush for his spine. As he spins around 
one of the ATTACKERS jams all eight inches of his bayonet blade into 
JACOB's stomach. JACOB screams. It is a loud and piercing wail.


CUT ON THE SOUND OF THE SCREAM to a sudden rush through a long dark 
tunnel. There is a sense of enormous speed accelerating toward a 
brilliant light. The rush suggests a passage between life and death, 
but as the light bursts upon us we realize that we are passing through 
a SUBWAY STATION far below the city of NEW YORK.




THE WHEELS OF AN EXPRESS TRAIN screech through the station. JACOB 
SINGER, sitting alone in the last car, wakes up. The sounds of the 
scream and the grating wheels merge. He is dazed and confused, not 
certain where he is.

JACOB glances around the empty car. His eyes gravitate to overhead 
advertisements for hemorrhoid perparations and savings banks. Gradually 
his confusion subsides. Shifting uncomfortably he pulls a thick book 
out of his back pocket, "The Stranger" by Albert Camus. He begins 
reading. Another station blurs by.

JACOB is a good-looking man, of obvious intelligence. He is in his mid-
thirties. It is surprising that he is wearing a mailman's uniform. He 
doesn't look like one.

The subway ride seems to go on interminably. JACOB is restless and 
concerned. He glances at his watch. It is 3:30 A.M. Putting his book in 
his back pocket, JACOB stands up and makes his way through the deserted 
car.




JACOB enters the rumbling passageway between the cars. The wheels spark 
against the rails. The dark tunnel walls flash by. He pulls the handle 
on the door to the next car. It is stuck. He struggles with it. A LADY 
sitting alone inside turns to look at him. She seems threatened by his 
effort. He motions for her to help. She turns away.

A look of disgust crosses JACOB's face. He kicks the door. It slides 
open. The WOMAN seems frightened as he approaches her.


		Excuse me, do you know if we've
		passed Nostrand Avenue yet?
			
		Excuse me.
			(she does not
			acknowledge his
			existence)
		Look, I'm asking a simple question.
		Have we hit Nostrand Avenue? I fell
		asleep.


			(speaking with a Puerto
			Rican accent)
		I no from around here.


			
		Yeah, you and everyone else.

JACOB walks to the other end of the car and sits down. The only other 
passenger is an OLD MAN lying asleep on the fiberglass bench. 
Occasionally his body shudders. It is the only sign of life in him.

The train begins to slow down. JACOB peers out of the window. Nostrand 
Avenue signs appear. He is relieved. He gets up and grabs hold of the 
overhead bar.

The OLD MAN shudders and stretches out on the seat. As he adjusts his 
position, tugging at his coat, JACOB catches a brief glimpse of 
something protruding from beneath the coat's hem. His eyes fixate on 
the spot, waiting for another look. There is a slight movement and it 
appears - a long, red, fleshy protuberance. The sight of it sends 
shivers up JACOB's spine. It looks strangely like a tail. Only the 
stopping of the train breaks JACOB's stare.




JACOB is the only passenger getting off. The doors close quickly behind 
him. He glances at the LADY sitting by the window. There is a fearful 
expression on her face as the train carries her back into the dark 
tunnel, out of his sight.

JACOB reaches the exit, a huge metal revolving door surrounded by floor 
to ceiling gates. He is about to push when he notices a chain locking 
it shut. He stares at it in disbelief.


		Goddam it.

He turns in a huff and hikes to the other end of the platform. As he 
approaches the far exit, his eyes widen. The gate there is also locked. 
His hands reach for his hips as he studies an impossible situation.

CUT TO JACOB stepping cautiously onto the ladder going down to the 
tracks. A rat scampers by and he gasps.


		No way!

He starts to climb back up the ladder but sees that there is nowhere 
else to go. He juts out his jaw and steps back down.

JACOB is not comfortable on the tracks. He cannot see where he is 
stepping. His shoes slpash in unseen liquid which makes him grimace. 
The steel girders are coated in subway grime. The oily substance coats 
his hands as he reaches for support.


		Goddam fucking city!

He wipes the grime on his postal uniform as he steps toward the center 
track. He reaches for another girder when it begins to vibrate. Two 
pinpoints of light hurl toward him. Then the noise arrives confirming 
his fear. A train is bearing down on him. JACOB looks frightened, not 
sure which way to go. He steps forward, up to his ankle in slime. He 
cannot tell which track the train is on. It is moving at phenomenal 
speed. The station is spinning. The train's lights merge into one 
brilliant intensity.

In near panic JACOB jumps across the track as the train spins by. Its 
velocity blows his hair straight up as though it is standing on end. He 
clings to a pillar for support, gasping in short breaths.

A few PEOPLE are staring at JACOB from the train. Their faces, pressed 
up against the glass, seem deformed. A lone figure waves at him from 
the rear window. The train bears them all away. Then it is quiet again. 
For a moment JACOB is afraid to move but slowly regains his composure. 
He continues to the other side of the tracks and stumbles up the ladder 
to the UPTOWN PLATFORM.




JACOB smiling. The smile, however, is one of irony, not amusement. This 
exit too is locked. A heavy chain is wrapped through the bars. JACOB 
stares at it with an expression of total bewilderment.

A sudden muffled scream alerts JACOB that he is not alone. His head 
turns but sees no one. He hears the scream again. He senses its 
direction and walks toward the MEN'S ROOM. A crack of light appears 
under the door. He can hear someone moaning inside. JACOB knocks softly 
and the moaning stops. The lights click off.


		Hey, is someone in there?

There is no answer. JACOB stands silently for a moment, not sure what 
to do. He can hear whispering. He chews his lower lip nervously and 
then reaches for the door. It pushes open.

The light from the station penetrates the darkness. He gasps. He sees a 
MAN tied naked to the stall with ANOTHER NAKED MAN grabbing quickly for 
his clothes. The BOUND MAN screams.


		Fuck off! Mind your own business!

A THIRD MAN spins out of the shadows, pointing a kinfe at JACOB's 
throat.


		You cocksucker! Get outta here.

The MAN's face is barely human. Before JACOB can even react the door 
slams shut. The lock engages. The crack of light reappears. JACOB can 
hear laughter coming from inside, followed by a scream. He backs away 
from the door. His face is white.

JACOB turns with full fury and storms the gate. The chain gives wayto 
his anger. It flies apart and the gate flings open. He stands in 
amazement, observing the chain as it slides from between the bars and 
drops to the concrete below. The gate squeaks loudly as JACOB pushes it 
aside and clangs with an almost painful burst as he slams it shut.




JACOB walks toward the towering shadows of a massive PUBLIC HOUSING 
PROJECT. It is dark and the moonlight silhouettes the huge monolithic 
structures. JACOB passes through a vast COURTYARD dominated by the 
imposing shapes. Aside from his moving body everything is still.




JACOB steps off a graffiti-festooned ELEVATOR into a long impersonal 
hallway. He uses three keys to unlock the door to his APARTMENT.




JACOB enters the darkness without turning on the light. He tries to 
navigate his way to the BATHROOM, illuminated by a tiny nightlight in 
the distance. His effort is unsuccessful. He bangs loudly into a table. 
A WOMAN"s voice calls out.


		Jake, is that you?


		What the hell did you do, move all
		the furniture?


		Why didn't you turn on the light?


		I didn't want to wake you.


			
		Gee, thanks a lot.


		Where is the lamp?


		Where are you?


		If I knew I wouldn't have to ask.
		What did you do? I was happy the way
		it was.


		I moved the couch. That's all.


		Where to?

JACOB crashes into it. A light suddenly goes on. JEZEBEL "JEZZIE" 
PIPKIN, 33, is standing in the BEDROOM door tying a man's terrycloth 
bathrobe around her waist. Although sleepy, disheveled, and not looking 
her best, it is obvious that JEZZIE is a beefy woman, juicy and 
sensual.


		That help?


			(nearly sprawled over
			the couch)
		Thanks.

He pushes himself up.


		What do you think?


		What do you mean?


		The room!


		Oh God, Jezzie, ask me tomorrow.


		It is tomorrow. Four A.M. How come
		you're so late?


		Roberts didn't show up. What could I
		say? Besides, it's double time.


			(seeing the grease on
			his uniform)
		What happened to you?


			(unbuttoning his shirt
			as he walks to the

		Don't ask.

JACOB steps into the BATHROOM and pulls at his clothes, leaving them in 
a pile on the floor. He reaches for the faucet and sends a stream of 
water pouding against the porcelain tub. JEZZIE enjoys JACOB's 
nakedness. She reaches out to his chest and squeezes one of his 
nipples. His body tenses slightly. JEZZIE drops her robe. They enter 
the shower together.




A DENSE RAIN falls on a dark night filling puddles of water. JACOB is 
crawling through the underbrush in the Vietnamese JUNGLE. His shirt is 
bloodsoaked. He moves slowly, creeping on his right forearm. His left 
arm is holding his intestines from spilling onto the grass.


		Help me. Someone.

Suddenly a flashlight beam can be seen in the distance. It dances 
around the bamboo trees and draws closer to JACOB. It is impossible to 
see who is carrying it. The light darts near the ground where JACOB is 
lying and then bursts directly into his eyes.




SUNLIGHT pours through the BEDROOM window. JACOB is sleeping fitfully 
as a bar of light saturates his face. His hand rushes up to cover and 
protect his eyes but the damage is done. He is awake.

JACOB lies in bed for a few moments, dazed. Slowly his hand gropes 
along the shelf at the head of the bed, searching for his glasses. He 
has trouble finding them. As his hand sweeps blindly across the 
headboard it hits the telephone and sends it crashing to the floor. He 
sits up with a disgusted look on his face and searches the out-of-focus 
shelf behind him. Suddenly JEZZIE enters.


		You up?


		No. Have you seen my glasses?


			
		Where'd you leave 'em?


		I don't know.


		Did you look around the headboard?


			
		Jezzie, I can't see.


			
		Maybe you left 'em in the bathroom.

She leaves and returns moments later with his glasses and a large paper 
bag. She tosses them both onto the bed.


		Thanks.
			(he puts on his glasses
			and notices the bag)
		What's that?


		Your kid dropped it off.


		Who? Jed?


			(stooping to pick up the
			phone)
		No. The little one.


		Eli. Why can't you remember their
		names?


		They're weird names.


		They're Biblical. They were prophets.


		Well, personally, I never went for
		church names.


		And where do you think Jezebel comes
		from?


		I don't let anybody call me that.


			
		You're a real heathen, you know that,
		Jezzie? Jesus, how did I ever get
		involved with such a ninny?


		You sold your soul, remember? That's
		what you told me.


		Yeah, but for what?


		A good lay.


		And look what I got.


		The best.


		I must have been out of my head.


		Jake, you are never out of your head!


			(ignoring the criticism
			and reaching for the
			paper bag)
		What's in here?


		Pictures. Your wife was gonna toss
		'em so "what's his name" brought 'em
		over on his way to school.

JACOB lifts the bag and pours the photographs onto the bed. There are 
hundreds of them. He examines them with growing delight.


		Look at these, will ya? I don't
		believe it. Jesus, these are
		fantastic. Look, here's my Dad ...
		And here's my brother, when we were
		down in Florida.


		Lemme see.


			(rummaging excitedly
			through the pile)
		Here. Look. This is me and Sarah when
		I was still at City College.


			
		That's Sarah?
			
		I can see what you mean.


		What?


		Why you left.


		What do you mean you can see?


		Look at her face. A real bitch.


		She looked good then.


		Not to me.


		Well, you didn't marry her.

He digs through more photos. Suddenly he stops.


		What's wrong?

To JEZZIE's surprise and his own, tears well up in his eyes. For a 
moment JACOB is unable to speak. He just stares at one of the photos. 
JEZZIE looks at the picture. It is an image of JACOB carrying a small 
child on his shoulders.


		Is that the one who died?


			
		Gabe.

JEZZIE is silent. JACOB grabs a Kleenex and blows his nose.


			
		Sorry. it just took me by surprise. I
		didn't expect to see him this morning
		... God, what I wouldn't ... He was
		the cutest little guy. Like an angel,
		you know. He had this smile ...
			
		Fuck, I don't even remember this
		picture.

Hiding his emotions, JACOB scrambles over the bed and reaches for a 
pair of pants. He pulls out his wallet and then carefully puts the 
photo of GABE inside. It joins photos of his two other boys. JEZZIE 
begins shoving the remaining pictures back into the paper bag.


		Wait. Don't.


		I don't like things that make you
		cry.


		I just want to look ...

He reaches into the pile for other snapshots. We see an array of frozen 
moments, happy, unfocused, obscure. Suddenly he stops and stares at a 
yellowing snapshot.


		God, this is me!
			(he holds up a baby
			photo)
		Look. It's dated right after I was
		born.
			(he stares at it
			intently)
		What a kid. Cute, huh? So much
		promise.

JEZZIE surveys the scene.


		It's amazing, huh Jake? Your whole
		life ... right in front of you.
			(she pauses before
			making her final
			pronouncement)
		What a mess!




JEZZIE carries the garbage to an INCINERATOR ROOM down the hall. She is 
carrying several bags. Two of them are tossed instantly down the chute. 
She hesitates with the third. After a moment she reaches into it and 
pulls out a handful of photos. They are pictures of JACOB and SARAH. 
With cool deliberation she drops them down the chute. An apartment door 
slams shut. Quickly she disposes of the pictures remaining in her hand. 
JACOB opens the door to the tiny room as the bag filled with the 
memories of his life falls to the fire below.


		Ready?


		Just gettin' rid of the garbage.

JACOB and JEZZIE, both wearing postal uniforms, head for the ELEVATOR. 
They are surprised that it has arrived promptly. JEZZIE reaches out and 
playfully sticks her tongue into JACOB's ear. He pulls her into the 
ELEVATOR. They disappear, laughing, behind its closing doors.




JACOB is driving a mail truck through the crowded streets of midtown 
Manhattan. As he drives he is humming to himself a rendition of Al 
Jolson's "Sonny Boy."

JACOB stops his truck in front of a LAUNDRY on West 46th Street. He 
opens the back door and pulls a stack of boxes toward him. He lifts 
them with effort and slams the door with his foot. It doesn't close. He 
considers giving it another whack but the boxes are heavy. He turns 
instead and waddles toward the store.




A heavyset WOMAN with a dark tan is standing behind a counter cluttered 
with laundry. A picture of Richard Nixon is still stapled to the wall. 
She looks at JACOB.


		Where do you expect me to put those?
		I don't have any room.

She tries clearing the counter, but it doesn't help.


			
		How 'bout over there?
			
		No wait. Do me a favor. Bring 'em to
		the back room.


		They're awfully heavy.


		I know. That's why I'm asking.

JACOB waddles reluctantly toward the back of the store. CHINESE 
LAUNDERERS are hovering over piles of clothes. Steam from the pressing 
machines shoots into the air.


			
		Where's Wong?


		That's what I'd like to know. If you
		see him on the street somewhere, tell
		him he's fired.

JACOB stoops to put the boxes on the shelf. There is a snapping sound 
and he winces in pain. Massaging his back, JACOB unfolds some papers 
for the WOMAN's signature.


		How was Palm Springs?


		Hot. Where do I sign?


			
		You got a nice tan, though.


		Tan? What tan? It faded on the
		airplane. I'd try to get my money
		back, but who do you ask?
			
		Two hundred dollars a night, for
		what?

She hands JACOB the wrong sheet.


		No. I'll take the other one.
			
		Right. Well it's good to have you
		back. See you tomorrow, probably.


		If you're lucky.

JACOB smiles to himself as he leaves the store. He walks carefully. His 
back is out.




ANGLE ON THE MAIL TRUCK stuck in traffic. Nothing is moving. Horns are 
blaring and drivers are agitated. JACOB reaches for a newspaper lying 
on top of his mail bags. To his shock one of the bags appears to move. 
Curious, JACOB pokes at it. Instantly a terrifying figure pops out from 
beneath it and stares at him with a frightening glare. JACOB jumps 
back, stunned. It is a moment before he realizes that he is looking at 
an old WINO who has been sleeping in the truck. The man's face is 
covered in strange bumps.


		Goddamn it! What the hell ... ?


			
		I didn't take nothin'. I was just
		napping. Don't hit me. I was cold.


			
		What the hell do you think you're
		doing? You can't do this. This is
		government property.

He begins opening the door. The WINO begs.


		Don't throw me out. They're gonna get
		me. They'll tear me to pieces.

He holds on to JACOB's leg. JACOB tries to pull away.


		Come on. You can't stay here.


		Please! I never hurt anybody when I
		was alive. Believe me. I don't belong
		here.

JACOB gives the WINO a strange look and then escorts him from the 
truck. A hundred eyes peer out of motionless cars and follow him as he 
leads the WINO to the sidewalk. JACOB pulls a dollar bill from his 
pocket and places it in the WINO's hand. The OLD MAN crumples it into a 
ball and turns away. He has a frightened look on his face. JACOB 
returns to the truck shaking his head.


		New York!

He climbs into his seat and glances into his rear view mirror. He 
notices the WINO edging fearfully along the side of a building. A horn 
honks and traffic begins moving. When JACOB looks back the WINO is no 
longer there.




JACOB drives his mail truck into the huge POST OFFICE PARKING GARAGE on 
34th Street. His mind seems distracted. He has difficulty parking.




We see a vast room filled with hundreds of PEOPLE sorting and moving 
mail.

JACOB, carrying a bag of McDonald's hamburgers, walks stiffly through 
the aisles, his left hand rubbing his back. Several workers greet him 
and grab for his french fries. He offers them around.

ANGLE ON a conveyor belt sorting mail. A hand reaches in, correcting 
mistakes. Suddenly a hamburger passes by. JEZZIE looks up and smiles.


		Jake!


		How's it going?

She takes the hamburger and shrugs.


			
		I'm going home.


		What's wrong?


		I don't know. One of these days, I'm
		gonna see Louis. My back's killing
		me.


		Now? What about the boss? He's not
		gonna like it.

JACOB shrugs.


			
		Well, I'll miss riding home with you.
		I was looking forward to it.


		I'll be glad to avoid the crush.


		I enjoy crushing into you.

She grabs him and hugs him tightly.


		Gently. My back.

JEZZIE ignores him and squeezes again.




CUT ON A SCREAM to JACOB in a CHIROPRACTOR'S OFFICE. He is lying on a 
long leather padded device that looks like an instrument of torture. 
LOUIS, the Chiropractor, is a giant of a man, 280 pounds. He is 
adjusting JACOB's spine.


		Come on, Jake. That didn't hurt.


		How do you know?


		I know you. How come you're so tense
		today?


		What can I tell you?


		I saw Sarah the other day.


		Her knee acting up?


		A bit.


		What did she have to say?


		Turn on your right side.
			
		How about the other "right?"
			
		I don't understand you philosphers.
		You've got the whole world figured
		out but you can't remember the
		difference between right and left.


		I was absent the day they taught that
		in school. What did she say?


		Who?


		Sarah.


		Not much. She's like you that way.
		Two clams. No wonder your marriage
		didn't last. Put your hand under your
		head. Take a breath and then let it
		out.

He makes a rapid adjustment pushing down on JACOB's thigh. JACOB 
groans.


			
		Ah, good. Now turn to your left.


		She talk about the boys?


		She says she can't get them new coats
		because you haven't sent the alimony
		for three months.


		She told you that?
			
		Did she tell you about the $2,000 I'm
		still paying for the orthodontist?
		I'll bet she didn't mention that.


		She said you were a son of a bitch
		and she regrets the day she set eyes
		on you.


		I thought you said she didn't say
		much.


		She didn't. That's about all she
		said. Put your hand up. Good. I think
		she still loves you. Take a breath
		and let it out.

He makes an adjustment. JACOB screams.


		Loves me!? She hasn't said a kind
		word about me in years!


		Right. She doesn't stop talking about
		you. You're always on her mind.
		That's love, Jake.


		She hates me, Louis.


		You should go back to her.


		What? She threw me out, remember. She
		wanted some professor to carry her
		far away from Brooklyn. Only we
		didn't make it. She can't forgive me
		that she still lives in the same
		house she grew up in.


		Her problem is that you spent eight
		years getting a PhD and then went to
		work for the post office.


		What can I tell you, Louis? After Nam
		I didn't want to think anymore. I
		decided my brain was too small an
		organ to comprehend this chaos.


			(looking at JACOB with
			affection)
		If it was any other brain but yours,
		I might agree. Relax, this is going
		to be strong.


		I can't relax.


		Wiggle your toes.

JACOB wiggles his toes. At that instant, LOUIS twists JACOB's neck 
rapidly. There is a loud cracking sound.




THERE IS A FLASH OF LIGHT. A MAN rushes at the camera yelling.


		I found one. He's alive.

He shines a flashlight into the lens creating rings and halos.




Suddenly LOUIS reappears, a halo effect still visible behind his head.


		God almighty. What did you do to me?


		I had to get in there. A deep
		adjustment. Rest a moment and let it
		set a bit.


		I had this weird flash just then.


		What?


		I don't know. I've been having them
		recently.
			(he thinks a moment,
			then changes the
			subject)
		You know, you look like an angel,
		Louis, an overgrown cherub. Anyone
		ever tell you that?


		Yeah. You. Every time I see you. No
		more Errol Flynn, okay? Your back
		won't take it. You tell your girl
		friend to calm down if she knows
		what's good for you.


		Louis, you're a life saver.


		I know.




JACOB is walking down Nostrand Avenue. He is singing to himself and 
imitating Al Jolson.


		When there are gray skies, I don't
		mind the gray skies, as long as
		there's you ...

He hums. It is near dusk and lights are just coming on. The shop 
windows have a particularly garish look about them. The mannequins are 
dressed in inexpensive, almost tawdry, clothes and have a pathetic 
appearance. A few shops have set up their Christmas decorations.

The ornamentation seems strangely out of place; almost blasphemous.

JACOB passes a street gang standing in the doorway of a local drug 
store. They chortle and make taunting sounds.


			(shaking her tits,
			singing)
		"Hey, Mr. Postman ... "

JACOB stops and stares at them. To their surprise, he begins to sing 
with them. He knows the words. They like that. It is a sweet moment.

JACOB continues walking. He comes to a cross street. The light is 
green. He is still singing to himself and does not notice a BLACK CAR 
sharging around the corner. The car is moving at full speed, heading 
straight toward him. A YOUNG MAN walking a few steps behind yells out.


		Look out!

JACOB turns and sees the car. He scoots out of the way but it swerves 
in his direction. The YOUNG MAN calls out again.


		Jump!

With a huge thrust, JACOB hurls himself onto the curb as the car shoots 
by. Two MEN are peering at him from the back seat. They are laughing 
like madmen and shaking their heads. They do not look human. JACOB 
yells and waves his fist, to no effect. After a moment he turns to 
thank the YOUNG MAN whose scream had saved him, but he is gone.




JACOB and JEZZIE are lying in bed. They are a sensual couple and even 
in quiet, reflective moments such as this, their positioning is erotic 
and stimulating. Both of them are nude. JACOB's hands are clasped 
behind his neck and he is staring mournfully at the ceiling. JEZZIE is 
lying on her side, her left leg draped across JACOB's pelvis. Her head 
is propped up on her right arm while her left hand strokes the bayonet 
scar on JACOB's stomach. Neither are talking. Suddenly, out of the 
blue, JEZZIE speaks.


		Maybe it's all the pressure, Jake.
		The money. Things like that. Or your
		wife.


		Why do you bring her up?


		'Cause she's always on your mind.


		When was the last time I said a word?


		It has nothin' to do with talkin'.

She pauses for a while, long enough to suppose that the conversation is 
over. Then she continues.


			
		Or maybe it's the war.

JACOB closes his eyes.


			
		It's still there, Jake.
			(she points to his
			brain)
		Even if you never say a word about
		it. You can't spend two years in
		Vietnam ...


			
		What does that have to do with
		anything? Does it explain the
		barricaded subway stations? Does it
		explain those Godforsaken creatures?


		New York is filled with creatures.
		Everywhere. And lots of stations are
		closed.


		They're like demons, Jez.


		Demons, Jake? Come on. They're winos
		and bag ladies. Low life. That's all
		they are. The streets are crawling
		with 'em. Don't make em into
		somethin' they're not.
			
		It's the pressure, honey. That's all
		it is.


		Those guys tried to kill me tonight.
		They were aiming right at me.


		Kids on a joy ride. Happens all the
		time.


		They weren't human!


		Come on. What were they, Jake?

JACOB doesn't answer. He turns over on his stomach. JEZZIE stares at 
his naked back and drags her fingernails down to his buttocks. Scratch 
marks follow in their wake.


		You still love me?

He does not respond.




JACOB and JEZZIE are sitting at the breakfast table. JEZZIE is reading 
the National Enquirer and chewing at her lip. Suddenly a drop of blood 
forms and falls onto the formica table top. Staring at it for a moment, 
she wipes it with her finger and then licks it with her tongue.

JACOB is nursing a cup of coffee and staring out the window at the 
housing project across the way. The toaster pops. JEZZIE jumps. She 
gets up, butters her toast, and returns to her paper.


		Says here the world's comin' to an
		end. The battle of heaven and hell
		they call it. Should be quite a show;
		fireworks, H-bombs, and everything.
		You believe them, Jake?

JACOB doesn't answer.


			
		Me neither ... God, look at this. Two
		heads. Only lived two days. A day for
		each head. Could you imagine me with
		two heads? We'd probably keep each
		other up all night - arguing and
		whatnot. You wanna see the picture?

He does not respond. JEZZIE gets up and walks over to JACOB. Standing 
in front of him she slowly unties her robe and lets it fall apart. She 
is naked underneath it. Sensuously she leans forward, unbuttons his 
shirt, and strokes his chest. She waits for a response from him, but 
there is none. He sits silently, disinterested.

Furious, JEZZIE turns away. Grabbing the vacuum cleaner from the broom 
closet she angrily unravels the cord and switches it on. Breasts flash 
from beneath her gown as the vacuum roars back and forth across the 
floor.


			
		Goddamn you son-of-a-bitch! My
		uncle's dogs used to treat me better
		than you do. At least they'd lick my
		toes once in a while. At least they
		showed some fucking interest.

A NEIGHBOR bangs on the wall, shouting.


		All right! All right! All right!

JACOB peers at the courtyard eighteen stories below and watches the 
patterns of early morning movement. Tiny figures drift purposefully 
over the concrete.

Suddenly the vasuum cleaner goes off. In the silence, JACOB realizes 
that JEZZIE is crying and turns to see her curled over the kitchen 
table. He walks to her side and strokes her hair. JEZZIE begins to sob. 
After a moment she looks at him with puffy eyes.


		You love me?

He nods his head "yes." She smiles coyly and rubs her hair like a 
kitten against his crotch. After a few moments she speaks.


			
		Della's party's tonight. Why don't we
		go? It'll take your minf offa things.
		And I won't make you dance. I
		promise. Huh?
			(he nods his head in
			consent. JEZZIE hugs
			him)
		You still love me, Jake?

He nods his head again, only heavily, as though the question exhausts 
him.




JACOB is in the "Mental Health Clinic" at BELLVUE HOSPITAL walking 
through the PSYCHIATRIC EMERGENCY ROOM. It is overflowing with people. 
Some are handcuffed to their chairs. POLICEMEN are with them. JACOB 
approaches the main RECEPTION DESK. He speaks nervously.


		I'd like to speak to Dr. Carlson,
		please.


		Carlson? Is he new here?


		New? He's been here for years.

She shrugs and looks at a log book.


		Not according to my charts. Do you
		have an appointment?


			
		Look, I need to see him. I know where
		his room is. Just give me a pass. I
		won't be long. Ten minutes.


		Our doctors are seen by appointment
		only.


		Damn it. I was in the veteran's out-
		patient program. He knows me.


			
		What's your name?


		Jacob Singer.

She walks over to a file drawer and goes through it several times 
before coming back over to JACOB.


		I'm sorry but there's no record of a
		Jacob Singer in our files.


		Whataya mean, no record?


		You want me to spell it out? There's
		nothing here.


		That's ridiculous. I've been coming
		here for years. Listen to me. I'm
		going out of my fucking mind here. I
		need to see him.


		If this is an emergency we have a
		staff of psychiatric social workers.
		There's about an hour's wait. I'll be
		glad to take your name. Why don't you
		just fill out this form?


		Goddamn it! I don't want a social
		worker. Carlson knows me.

JACOB pounds the desk, rattling a tiny African violet and knocking the 
RECEPTIONIST's forms to the floor. She grunts angrily and stoops to 
retrieve them. Standing up her cap hits a drawer handle and slips off. 
TWO KNUCKLE-LIKE HORNS protrude from her skull where the cap had been. 
JACOB's eyes lock on them like radar. He backs away. She immediately 
replaces her cap and breaks the spell, but her eyes glare at him with 
demonic intensity. JACOB, freaked, angry, turns and runs toward the "In 
Patient" door.


		Hey! You can't go in there!

JACOB doesn't stop. A POLICEMAN, guarding the entrance, runs after him.


JACOB charges through the interior corridors of the aging institution. 
A LINE OF MENTAL PATIENTS, all holding hands, is moving down the hall. 
They break ranks as he charges by and begin to scream. Their ATTENDANT 
tries to calm them down but the sight of the POLICEMAN increases their 
hysteria. They grab hold of him as he tries to get by.







JACOB dashes out of view. He runs down another corridor, wildly 
searching for a specific room. He finds it and rushes inside. He is 
surprised to find A GROUP OF MEN AND WOMEN seated in a circle. They all 
look up at him.


		Can I help you?


		I'm looking for Dr. Carlson. Isn't
		this his office?

The LEADER stares at him uncomfortably. After a moment he gets up and 
takes JACOB into a corner of the room. Everyone is watching them. The 
LEADER speaks quietly.


		I'm so sorry. Obviously you haven't
		... Dr. Carlson died.


			
		Died?


		A car accident.


		Jesus, Jesus! ... When?


		Last month, before Thanksgiving.


		How did it happen?


		No one knows. They say it blew up.


			
		Blew up? What do you mean it blew up?

The LEADER shrugs and tries to put his arm around JACOB, but he pulls 
away.


		Do you want me to get someone?


		No. No. It's okay. I'm okay.

He backs quickly to the door. As he turns to leave he realizes that all 
of the PEOPLE in the group are watching him intently.


Unsettled, JACOB hurries back into the hallway. He is frightened and 
confused. Suddenly a voice calls out.




JACOB turns and sees the POLICEMAN waiting for him. His gun is drawn.


		Hold it. Just hold it. Where the hell
		do you think you are? This is
		Bellevue, for God's sake. People
		running around here get shot.

The GROUP LEADER pokes his head out of the door and motions to the 



		It's alright. He's okay.


			(nodding, reholstering
			his gun)
		Come on, get out of here. I wouldn't
		want to interfere with the U.S. Mail.

He leads JACOB toward the lobby. JACOB does not look back.




WE HEAR LOUD DANCE MUSIC. SLY AND THE FAMILY STONE. JACOB is with some 
POST OFFICE EMPLOYEES at a crowded party in a small apartment. A DRUNK 
is telling a bad joke and trying to hold a glass of wine at the same 
time. It is constantly on the verge of spilling. JACOB is fixated on 
it. In the background, we see JEZZIE dancing and motioning for JACOB to 
join her. He nods no. The DRUNK, who keeps asking people if they "get 
it," takes JACOB's head nodding as a sign of confusion and keeps trying 
to re-explain the joke.

JACOB hears a strange noise and looks around. It seems to be coming 
from a covered bird cage. He goes over to it and lifts the cover. The 
BIRD is flapping its wings wildly as if trying to get out. The sound, 
loud and insistent, startles him. He lowers the cover.

In the DINING ROOM, several people are gathered around ELSA, an 
attractive black woman who is reading palms. She sees JACOB and calls 
over the music.


		Hey, you! Let me look at your hand!

JACOB shrugs. DELLA, dancing nearby, calls out.


		Go on Jake. She reads 'em like a
		book.


		No, thanks.


		It's fun.

CUT TO A CLOSE UP OF JACOB'S HAND. ELSA is squeezing the mounds and 
examining the lines. What begins as a playful expression on her face 
turns suddenly serious. She reaches for his other hand and compares the 
two of them. JEZZIE looks over from her dancing and eyes the scene 
jealously.


		You have an unusual hand.


		I could have told you that.


		You see this line here? It's your
		life line. Here's where you were
		born. And this is where you got
		married. You're a married man, huh?
		Oh oh. Nope. Divorce. See this split.

She studies his life line with growing concern. JEZZIE tries to get 
JACOB's attention. He ignores her.


			
		You know, you got a strange line
		here.


			
		It's short, huh?


		Short? It's ended.


			
		Oh, terrific.


		It's not funny. According to this ...
		you're already dead.


			
		Just my luck.



THE DANCERS. Their movements are loose and getting looser. The music is 
strong and insistent. The smokey atmosphere disfigures the dancers and 
gives them a strange, distorted appearance. Suddenly JEZZIE breaks from 
the crowd and reaches for JACOB. He pulls away. Some of the MALE 
DANCERS call out to him.


		Come on man, show your stuff.

JACOB is easily intimidated. Relenting, he glares at JEZZIE and nods 
apologetically to ELSA. It is obvious that he is embarrassed at his 
inadequacy on the dance floor.


		Come on professor. You got feet, too.

JACOB tries to smile but it is pained and unconvincing. JEZZIE is 
playing with him, mimicking his movement. A number of DANCERS notice 
and laugh, which only increases his discomfort. JEZZIE's taunting has a 
strange effect on JACOB. He grows distant and withdrawn, even though 
his body is still going through the motions of the dance.

A MAN taps JEZZIE on the shoulder. She spins around, smiling, and 
begins dancing with him. JACOB is left alone, dancing by himself. He 
looks away, uncomfortable.

In the shadows a WOMAN kneels close to the floor. She seems to be 
urinating on the carpet. JACOB is shocked. Several DANCERS obscure his 
view. He turns around.

A PREGNANT WOMAN stands half naked in the kitchen. JACOB cannot believe 
what he sees.

In the next room, past JEZZIE, JACOB glimpses a terrifying image, a MAN 
whose head seems to be vibrating at such enormous speed that it has 
lost all definition. Something about the image compels and frightens 
JACOB. Slowly he approaches it. As he draws nearer to it the tortured 
image lets out a scream of such pain and unearthly terror that JACOB 
backs away.

A WOMAN, laughing, grabs JACOB, spins him around, and begins dancing 
with him. He is totally disoriented.


		Hold me, baby!

She takes JACOB's arm and guides it to her back. THE CAMERA follows his 
hand as it reaches the smooth skin beneath her sexy, loose fitting 
dress. He runs his fingers up to her shoulder blades. Then, suddenly, 
he recoils. Her back is a mass of shoulder blades, hundreds of strange, 
bony protrusions. JACOB gasps. Out of the blue, JEZZIE leans into him 
and wiggles her tongue in his ear. JACOB, startled, jerks his head and 
his glasses go flying to the floor.


		Shit!

He stoops down blindly to pick them up. Shoes just miss his fingers as 
he digs between dancing legs trying to recover them. Miraculously, he 
grabs the spectacles just before they are crushed and slips them back 
on. Instantly his world comes back into focus.

As he stands, JACOB is surprised to find JEZZIE facing him, gyrating in 
wild abandon. There is a huge, satisfied smile on her face. She grabs 
his hand as if encouraging him to dance but it is obvious that she is 
dancing to her own rhythm. JACOB stares at her, confused. It takes him 
a moment to realize that her smile is not for him.

Standing behind JEZZIE is another DANCER, his hands around her waist. 
They are moving together, locked in erotic embrace. It appears that he 
is mounting her from behind. Looking down we see that the DANCER's feet 
are deformed. They have a bizarre clubbed appearance and look very much 
like hooves. They skid and careen amidst the dancing feet.

Something horrible and winglike flaps behind JEZZIE's back. We cannot 
make out what it is, but it elicits a primal terror. Before JACOB can 
react, JEZZIE opens her mouth. With a roaring sound, a spiked horn 
erupts from her throat. It juts menacingly from between her teeth and 
thrusts into the air. A CIRCLE OF DANCERS scream out in excited 
approval.

CUT TO JACOB's face as it registers terror and disbelief. He stares at 
the DANCERS who are crowding around him. They have become perverse, 
corrupt aspects of their normal selves.

JACOB grabs his eyes as though trying to pull the vision from his head 
but it won't go away. The music throbs. His actions become spastic, 
almost delirious.

JACOB is out of control. His frenzy becomes a kind of exorcism, a 
desperate attempt to free himself from his body and his mind. WE MOVE 
IN ON HIM as his eyes pass beyond pain. The dark walls of the APARTMENT 
fade away.




Strange faces in infantry helmets appear in the darkness, outlined by a 
bright moon that is emerging from behind a cloud. The faces are looking 
down and voices are speaking.


		He's burning up.


		Total delirium.


		That's some gash. His guts keep
		spilling out.


		Push 'em back.


		Help me!

His eyes focus on the moon. Rings of light emenate from it filling the 
sky with their sparkling brilliance. The rings draw us forward with a 
quickening intensity that grows into exhilarating speed. The rush 
causes them to flash stroboscopically and produces a dazzling, almost 
sensual, surge of color. The display is spectacular and compelling.

Music can be heard in the distance, growing hard and insistent, like a 
heart beat. Heavy breathing accompanies the sound. The stroboscopic 
flashes are replaced by intense flashes of red and blue light. The 
music grows louder and reaches a thundering crescendo. Then silence.




The APARTMENT reappears in all its normalcy. The neon sign is still 
flashing outside the window. DANCERS are smiling and sweating.

Cheers and applause ring out for JACOB and JEZZIE but JACOB barely 
hears them. JEZZIE hugs him tightly. PEOPLE smack him on the back.


		You are out of your mind, man. Out of
		your fuckin' mind.


		Jake, you little devil. You never
		told me you could dance like that.


		Jezzie, what did you put in his
		drink?

JEZZIE smiles while pulling JACOB to a corner chair. He plops down. His 
chest is heaving and he is grabbing hold of his stomach. Hie face is 
frightened and distorted.


		You okay?


		I wanna leave. Get me out of here.


		Oh, come on. It's early.


			(pulling JEZZIE close to
			him, his voice filled
			with paranoia)
		Where are we?


			(surprised by the
			question)
		We're at Della's.


		Where?


		What do you mean? Where do you think?


		Where's Della? Bring her here?


		Why? What for?


		Show me Della!


			
		Hey, I'm here.

JACOB eyes her with a pleading look. Annoyed, JEZZIE leaves JACOB and 
crosses the room. He watches her as she goes. JACOB is holding his 
stomach and rocking painfully. Moments later JEZZIE returns with DELLA.


		Hiya Jake. That was some dance.


			
		Della?


			(feeling the
			strangeness)
		You want to see me? Well, here I am.


		I see.


		What do you want?


		Just to see you. That's all.


			
		Well, how do I look?


		Like Della.

Suddenly JACOB breaks out in a dense sweat and begins shaking. His 
entire body is convulsive.


		Are you feeling all right? Shit,
		you're burning up. Feel his forehead.


			(checking his forehead
			and cheeks)
		Damn, that's hot. Maybe from dancing.


		I think you should lie down.

JACOB is shaking uncontrollably. People are gathering around.


			
		Can't you stop it?


		If I could stop it, I'd stop it.


		Is he sick?


		He's on fire.


		Let me help you.

She reaches out to JACOB. Unexpectedly he recoils, jumping to his feet 
like a wild man. He begins to scream.


		Stay away from me! Don't you come
		near me! All of you. Go to hell! Go
		to hell, goddamn you! Stay away!

JEZZIE stares at JACOB with a confused and embarrassed look. A MAN 
whispers to her.


		I'll call a cab.




JACOB is lying in bed in his own BEDROOM with a thermometer in his 
mouth. JEZZIE is pacing the floor with great agitation.


		I've never been so mortified in my
		whole life. Never! Screaming like
		that. I don't understand what's
		gotten into you, Jake, to make you do
		a thing like that. You're not acting
		normal. I've lived with too many
		crazies in my life. I don't want it
		anymore. I can't handle it. I'm tired
		of men flipping out on me. Shit,
		you'd think it was my fault. Well you
		picked me, remember that. I don't
		need this.

The NEIGHBOR pounds on the wall.


			
		All right! All right!

JEZZIE jabs her finger at the wall.


			
		If you go crazy on me you're goin'
		crazy by yourself. You understand?

JEZZIE reaches for his mouth and pulls out the thermometer. She looks 
at it closely and then squints to see it better.


		What's it say? A hundred and two?


		I don't believe this. I'm calling the
		doctor.

She runs out of the room. JACOB calls after her.


		What does it say?


		It's gone to the top.


		How high is that?


		The numbers stop at 107.

JEZZIE is on the phone to the doctor in the next room.

JACOB begins shaking again and reaches for the extra blanket at the 
foot of the bed. He pulls it up around his shoulders. The whole bed 
vibrates with his shivering. Suddenly JEZZIE rushes through the BEDROOM 
and into the BATHROOM. SHe turns on the bath water.


		What the hell are you doin'?


		Get your clothes off.


		What are you talking about? I'm
		freezing.


		Get your clothes off!

JACOB gives her a confused look as she rushes back to the KITCHEN.


		What'd the doctor say?


		That you'd die on the way to the
		hospital. Now get into that tub.

JACOB stares at her as she bursts back into the BEDROOM carrying four 
trays of ice cubes. She hurries into the BATHROOM and dumps them in the 
tub.


		He's coming right over.


		Coming here?


		Goddamn it. Get in here. I can't
		stand around waiting.

She rushes out of the BATHROOM and pulls JACOB out of bed. He is 
shaking violently and she has difficulty navigating across the room and 
undressing him at the same time. She maneuvers him into the BATHROOM 
next to the tub. He looks down at the ice cubes floating in the water.


		You're out of your mind. I'm not
		getting in there. I'd rather die.


		That's your decision.


		Look at me. I'm ice cold.


		You're red hot, damn it. Get in
		there. I've got to get more ice.

She runs out of the room. The door to the apartment slams shut. JACOB 
sticks his toe into the water and pulls it out again instantly.


		Oh Jesus!

He sticks his whole foot in and grits his teeth as the ice cold water 
turns his foot bright red. He keeps it in as long as he can and then 
yanks it out, quickly wrapping it in a towel. JACOB rubs his foot 
vigorously to get rid of the sting and stares at the water, afraid of 
its pain.




JEZZIE is running up and down the CORRIDOR knocking on doors and 
collecting ice cubes from those who will answer. She hurries back to 
the BATHROOM with several PEOPLE behind her carrying additional ice 
trays. One of the MEN is shifting the trays in his hands to avoid the 
burning cold.




As JEZZIE enters the BATHROOM, JACOB is sitting on the rim of the tub 
with the water up to his calves, shivering vigorously.


		I can't do it.


		What kind of man are you?

She unloads two trays into the water.


		Don't gimme that.


		Lie down!


			
		Jezzie! My feet are throbbing!


			
		Sam, Tony, come in here.


		Hey, I'm not dressed.


		You got nothin' we ain't seen before.

SAM and TONY grab hold of JACOB who wrestles to get away.


		Get the hell off me.


		He's like a hot coal.


		It's for your own good, Jake.


		Let go of me, you sons of bitches.

The TWO MEN struggle with JACOB and force him into the water. TONY 
winces when the water hits his arm. JACOB nearly flies out of the tub. 
The TWO MEN fight to hold him down. JACOB screams and cries for the MEN 
to let him go but they keep him flat on his back.


			
		I'm freezing! I'm freezing! Goddamn
		you!


			
		Sam, I can't take it.


		Don't you let go.


		Jez, get help. My hands are killing
		me.


		Help me! Help me!


			
		Here. I'll do it.


		Take his legs.


		Run your hands under hot water.

MRS. CARMICHAEL comes in.


		I have some ice from the machine.


		Bring it in.


		Is he all right?


		He doesn't like it.


		I don't blame him. What should I do
		with the ice?


		Pour it in.


		On top of him?


		He's melting it as fast as we dump it
		in.


		Okay. My husband's got two more bags.
		He's coming. They're heavy.

TONY helps her pour the ice into the water. JACOB yells.


		Oh God! You're killing me! Stop!




CUT TO JACOB lying in a BEDROOM we have not seen before. He is tossing 
and turning in his bed as though struggling to get out. Suddenly he 
sits up and looks over at the window. It is open and the shade is 
flapping. Cold air is blowing in and he is shivering.


		Damn! You and your fresh air.

He jumps out of bed and goes over to the window. He pushes at the frame 
and it comes flying down with a loud bang. A woman in the bed sits up. 
It is SARAH.


		What was that?


		It's freezing.


		I'm not cold.


		Of course not. You have all the
		blankets. It must be ten degrees in
		here. I'm telling you, Sarah, if you
		want to sleep with fresh air, you
		sleep on the fire escape. From now on
		that window is closed.


		It's not healthy with it closed.


		This is healthy? I'll probably die of
		pneumonia tomorrow and this is
		healthy.

He settles back into bed and pulls the covers back over to his side. He 
lies quietly for a moment, thinking.


			
		What a dream I was having. I was
		living with another woman ... You
		know who it was?


		I don't want to know.


		Jezebel, from the post office. You
		remember, you met her that time at
		the Christmas party. I was living
		with her. God, it was a nightmare.
		There were all these demons and I was
		on fire. Only I was burning from ice.


		Guilty thoughts. See what happens
		when you cheat on me, even in your
		mind?


		She was good in bed, though.


		Go to sleep.


		She had these real beefy thighs.
		Delicious.


		I thought you said it was a
		nightmare?

Suddenly, out of nowhere, we hear the tinkling sound of a music box. A 
YOUNG BOY enters the room, carrying a musical LUNCH BOX in his arms. He 
is wearing a long T-shirt nearly down to his ankles. We recognize him 
from his photograph. It is GABE.


		Daddy, what was that noise?


			
		Gabe?
			(he stares curiously at
			his son)
		What are you doing ... ?


		There was a bang.


		It was the window.


		It's cold.


		Tell your mother.


		Mom, it's ...


		I heard you. Go back to sleep.


		Will you tuck me in?


			
		Oh ... all right.

She starts to rise. JACOB stops her and gets up instead. He whisks GABE 
upside down and carries him into his




BEDROOM, licking his belly and tickling him all the way. GABE laughs 
and snuggles into his pillow as soon as he hits the bed. JED, 9, and 
ELI, 7, are both in bunk beds across the room. JED looks up.


		Dad?


		Jed. It's the middle of the night.
			(he kisses GABE and goes
			over to JED in the lower
			bunk)
		What's up?


		You forgot my allowance.


		Your allowance? It's five A.M. We'll
		talk at breakfast.


		Okay, but don't forget.

Suddenly another voice pipes in from the top bunk.


		I love you, Dad.

JACOB smiles.


		What is this, a convention? I love
		you, too, Pickles. Now go back to
		sleep.

He turns to leave.


		Wait ... Daddy.


		Now what?


		Don't go.


		Don't go?
			
		I'm not going anywhere. I'm right
		here, Gabe.
			(he looks at his son
			tenderly)
		Come on, go back to sleep. You can
		still get a couple of hours.

He hugs him warmly and then walks to the door.


		... I love you.

There is deep emotion and seriousness in GABE's words. JACOB is struck 
by them.


			
		Don't shut the door.

JACOB nods and leaves it a tiny bit ajar.


			
		A bit more ... a bit more.

JACOB adjusts the opening enough to please GABE and make him secure. 
GABE smiles and cuddles in his bed.




JACOB settles back into bed. SARAH turns over and gets comfortable. 
JACOB lies on his back facing the ceiling. He pulls the blankets up to 
his neck. He is overcome with feelings of sadness and longing.


		I love you, Sarah.

She smiles warmly. His eyes close and in a matter of seconds he is back 
asleep.




WE HEAR SUMMER MORNING SOUNDS, CRICKETS and BIRDS. The image of trees 
materializes overhead and a beautiful pink sky, just before sunrise, 
can be seen through the branches. It is an idyllic setting.

Suddenly a strange sound can be heard in the distance, a metallic 
humming, growing louder. There is a scramble of feet and a sound of 
heavy boots moving through the tall grass. Voices can be heard. Men's 
voices.


		They're here.


		Thank God. Move 'em out!


		Bust your balls!


		Move it! Move it!

There is an instant swell of activity. Trees and branches blur and 
speed by overhead. The idyllic image of moments before reveals itself 
as a P.O.V. SHOT. The CAMERA races out of a JUNGLE covering and into a 
huge CLEARING.

High overhead a helicopter appears. Its blades whirl with a deafening 
whine. Long lines drop from its belly and dangle in mid-air. SOLDIERS 
leap up into the air reaching for them. The air is filled with 
turbulence. Tarps fly off dead bodies. SOLDIERS hold them down. Voices 
yell but the words are not clear. They are filled with urgency.

The CAMERA leaves the ground. The edges of the sky disappear as the 
helicopter's gray mass fills the frame. It grows larger and darker as 
the CAMERA approaches. Rivets and insignias dotting the underbelly come 
into view. Suddenly the stretcher begins spinning, out of control. 
Hands emerge from inside, reaching out to grab it.

Watery, womb-like sounds rise out of nowhere, the rippling of water, a 
heart beating. Gradually voices can be heard mumbling; distant sounds, 
warm and familiar.




JACOB's DOCTOR reaches down to help him out of the tub. Surprisingly 
JEZZIE and MRS. CARMICHAEL are standing there too. JACOB stares at them 
in total confusion.


		You are a lucky man, my friend. A
		lucky man. You must have friends in
		high places, that's all I can say.

SAM and TONY appear next to the DOCTOR. They are extending their hands 
to the P.O.V. CAMERA. JACOB'S arms, nearly blue, reach out to them.

Slowly they lift him from the icy water. JACOB takes one step onto the 
tile and collapses to the floor.






FADE IN sounds of feet shuffling across the carpet. A glass rattles on 
a tray. A television is on low in the background. Slowly the CAMERA 
LENS opens from JACOB's P.O.V. and we see JEZZIE puttering around the 
BEDROOM. Suddenly she is aware that JACOB is watching her. She smiles.


		Jake.
			(she places her hand on
			his head and strokes his
			hair)
		You're gonna be all right, Jake.
		You're gonna be fine.


		Am I home?


		You're here. Home. The doctor said
		you're lucky your brains didn't boil.
			
		What a night, Jake. It was crazy. You
		kept sayin' "Sarah, close the
		window," over and over. And talkin'
		to your kids. Even the dead one.
		Weird. You know you melted 200 pounds
		of ice in 8 hours. Amazing, huh?


		Are we in Brooklyn?


		You're right here, Jake. You just
		rest.
			(she puffs up his
			pillow)
		The doctor said you had a virus.
		That's what they say when they don't
		know what it is. You can't do
		anything for a week. He says you
		gotta recuperate.
			(she strokes his
			forehead, and gets up)
		Now you just lie here. Mrs. Sandelman
		made you some chicken soup. It'll
		warm you up.

JEZZIE leaves the room. JACOB watches her as she goes. He seems lost 
and confused.




JACOB, unshaven, wearing his bathrobe, is sitting at the KITCHEN TABLE. 
PILES OF BOOKS on demonology are spread out before him. He studies them 
to distraction. JEZZIE is standing by the counter making sandwiches. 
She wraps them in plastic Baggies and puts one in a lunch box, another 
in the refrigerator. She is dressed in her postal uniform.


		You know, you really ought to get out
		today. You can't just sit around like
		this all the time. It's not healthy.
		It's not good for your mind. Go take
		a walk, or somethin'. Go to a movie.
		Christ, who's gonna know? You think I
		care? I don't give a shit. Go. Enjoy
		yourself. One of us should be having
		a good time.
			(JEZZIE knocks on
			JACOB's head)
		Hello! Anybody home?
			
		Anybody in there?


		What?

JEZZIE just stares at him. She does not respond. JACOB returns to his 
books.

CUT TO CLOSE UP IMAGES OF WINGED DEMONS, real demons, with spindly 
horns and long tails. JACOB's huge finger, magnified, scans page after 
page of ancient images and archaic text. JEZZIE, enraged at his lack of 
attention, returns to packing her lunch box. Suddenly she spins around.


		Goddamn it! I can't stand it anymore.
		I've had it up to here. Go ahead and
		rot if you want ... You son-of-a-
		bitch, I'm talking to you.

CUT BACK to the DEMONS. Suddenly a crashing sound catches JACOB's 
attention as a KITCHEN POT flies by his head. He looks up to see JEZZIE 
knocking pots and pans off the kitchen counter and kicking them wildly 
across the room. The noise is terrible. The intensity of her rage is 
shocking. The pots crash into every surface, knocking all his books 
onto the floor. And then, suddenly, she stops.

JEZZIE stoops down to the floor and picks up her sandwich, stuffs it 
back in its plastic Baggie, and puts it back in her lunch box. She is 
about to leave when she stops and looks at JACOB.


			(continuing, her anger
			in check)
		I made you a tuna fish sandwich. It's
		in the fridge. Eat a carrot with it.
		The aspirin's on the bottom shelf.
		We're out of soap so, if for some
		reason you decide to wash yourself
		again, use the dishwashing stuff.
			(she walks out of the
			room and returns with
			her coat)
		I'm sorry I yelled, but you get on my
		nerves.
			(she bends down and
			makes eye contact with

		Hello? Listen, I gotta go.

JEZZIE sits on his lap, gives him a big kiss, and then, unexpectedly, 
raises two fingers, like horns, over her head. The gesture catches 
JACOB's full attention.


			
		Look, I'm horny. Keep it in mind.
			
		Love me a little?


			(speaking with
			affection)
		You are the most unbelievable woman I
		have ever met. One second you're a
		screaming banshee and the next you're
		Florence Nightingale. Who are you?
		That's what I want to know. Will the
		real Jezzie Pipkin please stand up.

Suddenly the telephone rings. It startles them.


		Oh shit. Tell 'em I've left.

JEZZIE grabs her jacket and shoves her arm in it upside down. A 
pocketful of change falls on the floor. JACOB smiles. JEZZIE curses as 
she struggles to pick it up and get the jacket on right. JACOB gets the 
phone.


		Hello.


		Jacob Singer?


		Speaking.


		Paul Gruneger!


		Paul Gruneger! Well I'll be
		goddamned!

JACOB indicates it's for him. JEZZIE throws him a kiss goodbye and 
hurries out the door.


			
		Paul! You son-of-a-bitch, how the
		hell are you? I haven't seen you in
		what, five, six, years?


		A long time.


		Jesus Christ. How've you been? What's
		happening in your life?


		Nothin' much.


		Me neither. Nothing too exciting. So
		tell me, to what do I owe the honor?


		I need to see you, Jake.


		Shit, Paul. I'd love to see you. But
		I'm kind of laid up here. I've been
		sick.


		I need to see you.




JACOB and PAUL are driving through EAST NEW YORK heading toward 
WILLIAMSBURG. The elevated trains rumble above them. JACOB pats PAUL on 
the back.


		Jesus, man, you look terrific. You
		must have put on twenty pounds.


		I work in a bakery.


		You're lucky. How many vets you know
		are even employed?


		Count 'em on one hand.


		It's almost like a conspiracy, huh?


		No joke. Fuckin' army! That goddamn
		war. I'm still fightin' it.


		It's not worth it. You'll never win.


		You tellin' me? How many times can
		you die, huh?

PAUL looks in his rear view mirror before changing lanes. He sees a 
black car tagging close behind him. He pulls out. So does the car.


			
		Still married, Jake?


		Nope.


		You and everybody else. God I hate
		this area. Makes me nervous.


		Why the hell we drivin' here?


		I just need to talk.


		You can't talk in Brownsville?


		I'm not sure where I can talk
		anymore.


		What's wrong?


		Let's get a couple drinks, okay?
			(he looks at his rear
			view mirror)
		Hey, take a look behind us. Do you
		think that car is followin' us?


			
		That black car?


		Pull the mirror down on the sun
		visor.
			
		Just watch 'em.


		What's goin' on Paul?


		I don't know.


		You in trouble?


		Yeah.

JACOB notices PAUL's left arm. It is shaking. The black car passes on 
the left. Both PAUL and JACOB stare at it as it speeds by.




JACOB and PAUL are sitting in a dark booth in an obscure WILLIAMSBURG 
BAR. It is nearly empty. PAUL is leaning across the table in a very 
intimate fashion.


		Somethin's wrong, Jake. I don't know
		what it is but I can't talk to
		anybody about it. I figured I could
		with you. You always used to listen,
		you know?

JACOB nods. PAUL takes a sip of his drink and stares deliberately into 
JACOB's eyes.


			
		I'm going to Hell!

JACOB's face grows suddenly tense.


			
		That's as straight as I can put it.
		And don't tell me that I'm crazy
		'cause I know I'm not. I'm goin' to
		Hell. They're comin' after me.


			(frightened, but holding
			back)
		Who is?


		They've been followin' me. They're
		comin' outta the walls. I don't trust
		anyone. I'm not even sure I trust
		you. But I gotta talk to someone. I'm
		gonna fly outta my fuckin' mind.

PAUL cannot contain his fear. He jumps up suddenly and walks away from 
the booth. JACOB follows him with his eyes but does not go after him. A 
YOUNG MAN in the next booth observes the scene with interest. He looks 
vaguely familiar, like we have seen him before.

PAUL stares out the window for a moment and then walks over to the juke 
box. He pulls a quarter out of his pocket and drops it in the slot. His 
finger pushes a selection at random. Some '60's rock hit blares out. 
JACOB's mind is reeling by the time PAUL sits back down.


			
		Sorry. Sometimes I think I'm just
		gonna jump outta my skin. They're
		just drivin' me wild.


		Who, Paul? What exactly ... ?


		I don't know who they are, or what
		they are. But they're gonna get me
		and I'm scared, Jake. I'm so scared I
		can't do anything. I can't go to my
		sisters. I can't even go home.


		Why not?


		They're waitin' for me, that's why.

PAUL's hand starts to shake. The tremor spreads rapidly to his whole 
body. The booth begins to rattle.


			
		I can't stop it. I try. Oh God! Help
		me Jake.

JACOB slides quickly out of his side of the booth and moves in toward 
PAUL. He puts his arm around him and holds him tightly, offering 
comfort as best he can.

PAUL is obviously terrified and grateful for JACOB's gesture. A few 
PEOPLE at the bar look over in their direction.


		It's okay, Paul. It's okay.


			
		I don't know what to do.


		Don't do anything.
			(PAUL begins to relax a
			bit and the shaking
			subsides)
		Paul, I know what you're talking
		about.


		What do you mean?


		I've seen them too ... the demons!


			
		You've seen them?


		Everywhere, like a plague.


		God almighty. I thought I was the
		only one.


		Me, too. I had no idea. It's like I
		was coming apart at the seams.


		Oh God. I know. I know.


		What is it Paul? What's happening to
		me?


		They keep telling me I'm already
		dead, that they're gonna tear me
		apart, piece by piece, and throw me
		into the fire.
			(he fumbles in his coat
			pocket and pulls out a
			small Bible and silver
			cross)
		I carry these everywhere but they
		don't help. Nothing helps. Everyone
		thinks I'm crazy. My mother filed a
		report with the army.


			
		The army?


		She said I haven't been the same
		since then. Since that night. There's
		still this big hole in my brain. It's
		so dark in there, Jake. And these
		creatures. It's like they're crawling
		out of my brain. What happened that
		night? Why won't they tell us?


		I don't know. I don't know.


		They're monsters, Jake. We're both
		seein' 'em. There's gotta be a
		connection. Something.

JACOB leans back in the booth, his mind racing. The YOUNG MAN in the 
next booth is watching them with rapt attention.




PAUL and JACOB are in the MEN'S ROOM. PAUL flushes the urinal.


		I'm afraid to go by myself anymore. I
		keep thinkin' one of 'em's gonna come
		up behind me. Somethin's wrong when a
		guy can't even take a leak by
		himself. I've seen 'em take people
		right off the street. I used to go
		home a different way every night. Now
		I can't even go home.


		You come home with me.


		What about your girlfriend? You don't
		think she'll mind?


		Are you kidding? We've put up more of
		her cousins. You wouldn't believe how
		they breed down there.

PAUL smiles.




The TWO MEN leave the bar on a dingy side street. It is cold outside. 
Christmas lights seem ludicrous dangling in the bar's front window. 
PAUL looks at them and smiles.


		Merry Christmas.

PAUL steps into the street and walks to the driver's side of his car. 
He pulls out his keys and opens the door. JACOB looks down on the 
sidewalk and notices a dime.


		Goddamn, this is my lucky day.

He bends down to pick it up. PAUL inserts the key into the ignition and 
steps on the gas. He turns the key.

THE CAR EXPLODES. Pieces of metal and flesh fly into the air. JACOB 
sprawls out flat on the ground as the debris hurls above him. He covers 
his head.




CUT TO A HELICOPTER suffering an air bombardment. Flack is exploding 
all around it and the shock waves are rocking the craft violently. 
JACOB's eyes peer to the left.

INFANTRY GUNNERS are firing rockets into the JUNGLE below. A pair of 
MEDICS are huddled over him. A sudden gush of arterial bleeding sends a 
stream of blood splattering over the inside of the windshield. The 
PILOT, unable to see, clears it away with his hands.

JACOB screams over the roar of the chopper. One of the MEDICS presses 
his ear close to JACOB to hear.


		Help me!


		We're doing the best we can.


		Get me out of here!




THE YOUNG MAN from the bar grabs JACOB under the arms and drags him 
down the sidewalk.


		Just hold on.


		Where am I? Who are you?

The YOUNG MAN yanks JACOB around the corner just as another explosion 
consumes the car. The air is filled with flames and flying debris. The 
YOUNG MAN pulls JACOB into the bar.


		Just lie still. You're okay. You're
		not hurt.

The CUSTOMERS are in a state of bedlam. Part of the wall has blown 
apart and bricks and glass are everywhere. The cross from around PAUL's 
neck is buried in the debris. Sirens are heard in the distance. A BLACK 
CAR speeds off down the street. JACOB looks for the YOUNG MAN who had 
helped him. He is gone.




A FUNERAL PROCESSION heads down Ocean Parkway.




JACOB and JEZZIE are driving in an old Chevy Nova. They are dressed up. 
JACOB's face is bruised and he has a gauze pad over his ear. They drive 
in silence. JACOB appears very sad. Slowly his right hand reaches 
across the seat, seeking JEZZIE's. Their fingers embrace.




The FUNERAL PROCESSION enters the CEMETERY. Cars park along the length 
of the narrow road. MEN IN DARK SUITS emerge from their cars along with 
WIVES and GIRLFRIENDS.

They are the SOLDIERS we have seen at the opening of the film, only 
they are older now. A small group of FAMILY MEMBERS are helped to the 
graveside.

JACOB joins the other VETERANS as pallbearers. They carry the casket in 
semi-military formation to the grave.




JACOB'S OLD ARMY BUDDIES are sitting together in Paul's living room, 
talking. PAUL'S WIFE can be seen in the BEDROOM. Several WOMEN are 
comforting her.

JEZZIE is talking to a small group of LADIES in the DINING ROOM and 
nibbling off a tray of cold cuts. PAUL'S SISTER is with her and they 
seem to be having a lively, almost intimate, conversation.

JACOB and his BUDDIES are drinking beer. They all have a tired, 
defeated look about them.


		Did anyone see the police report? It
		sounds like a detonation job to me.


		The paper said it was electrical; a
		freak accident.


		Bullshit. Someone's covering
		somethin'. That was no accident.


		Why do you say that?


		Cars don't explode that way. Any
		simpleton knows that.


		But the paper ...


		That was set. I'm tellin' you.


		By who? Why? Paul didn't have an
		enemy in the world.


		How do you know?


		Hey, you're talkin' about Paul. Who'd
		want to hurt him?


		What did he talk about when you guys
		went out? Did he say anything?


		He was upset. He thought people were
		following him.


		You're kidding. Who?


		He didn't know ... Demons.


			(obviously struck by the
			word)
		What do you mean, demons?


		He told me he was going to Hell.

The statement has a surprising impact on the group. There is immediate 
silence and eyes averted from one another.


		What'd he say that for? What made him
		say that? Strange, huh? Strange.


		What else did he say, Jake?


		He was scared. He saw these creatures
		coming out of the woodwork. They were
		tryin' to get him, he said.


			
		How long had that been going on?


		A couple of weeks, I think.

He notices GEORGE's beer can rattling.


		He say what they looked like?


		No. Not really ...


		Excuse me a minute. I'll be right
		back.


		In one end, out the other, huh
		George?

GEORGE tries to smile as he hurries to the bathroom. His arm is nearly 
out of control and beer is spilling on the carpet as he walks.


			
		Still a spastic, huh? I hope you can
		hold your dick better than you hold
		that can.

No one laughs. There is an uncomfortable silence.




The SIX MEN are walking quietly through an unpaved alley. It is already 
gray and getting darker.


		I know what Paul was talking about. I
		don't know how to say this ... but in
		a way it's a relief knowing that
		someone else saw them, too.


		You're seeing ... ?


		They're not human, I'll tell you
		that. A car tried to run over me the
		other day. It was aiming straight for
		me. I saw their faces. They weren't
		from Brooklyn.


		What are you tellin' me? They're from
		the Bronx?


		It was no joke, Rod.


		Something weird is going on here.
		What is it about us? Even in Nam it
		was always weird. Are we all crazy or
		something?


		Yeah, ever since that ...

He hesitates. They all understand.


		What's that have to do with anything?


		It was bad grass. That's all it was.


		Grass never did that to me.


		You know, I've been to three shrinks
		and a hypnotist. Nothing penetrates
		that night. Nothing.


		It's not worth goin' over again and
		again. Whatever happened, happened.
		It's over.


		... I've seen them, too.


		Shit!


		So have I.


		Look, there's something fucking
		strange going on here. You know
		Paul's not the only one who's died.
		You remember Dr. Carlson over at
		Bellevue? His car blew up, too.


		Dr. Carlson's dead?


		An explosion, just like Paul's.


		No!


		Jesus!


		You think they're connected?


			
		I think something's fucking connect-
		ed. I mean, a car tried to run me 
		over the other day. Doug too, right? 
		We've got six guys here going fucking
		crazy.


		Not me, buddy.


		Okay, not you Rod. But the rest of us
		are flipping out for some goddamn
		reason. They're tryin' to kill us.
		Fuck it man, we need to find out
		what's going on.


		Do you think it has something to do
		with ... the offensive?


		It's got something to do with some-
		thing. I think we've got to confront
		the army. If they're hiding shit from
		us, we better find out what it is.


		Come on, Professor. The army's not
		gonna give you any answers. You'll be
		buttin' your head against a stone
		wall.


		Maybe that's the only way to get
		through. Besides, six heads'll be
		better than one.


		Not my head, buddy. Not me. I'm
		gettin' a headache just listenin' to
		you.


		We should get ourselves a lawyer.


		I say you should get a shrink.


		Too late. I've tried. I think you're
		right, Jake. I'm game.


		Me, too.


		You guys are fucking paranoid. It was
		bad grass. That's all it was. There's
		no such thing as demons.




JACOB, FRANK, JERRY, GEORGE, DOUG, and ROD are sitting on plush chairs 
in the LAW OFFICE of DONALD GEARY. GEARY, a red-faced man with three 
chins, is sucking on an ice cube. He looks at each of the men, and then 
spits the ice cube into an empty glass. It clinks.


		I'm sorry, Mr. Singer, but do you
		have any idea how many people come to
		me with the injustices of the world?
		It'd break your heart.


		This isn't injustice, Mr. Geary. The
		army did something to us and we've
		got to find out what.


		The army. The army. What is it with
		you guys? We're not talking about a
		trip to the library here. This is the
		United States Government for God's
		sake. This is red tape coming out of
		your ass. You know what I mean?


		Exactly. And we need someone to cut
		through it. We hear you're the man.


		Oh yeah? What am I - Perry Mason
		here?

GEARY stands up and grabs a bag of Cheetos from a file drawer. He 
chomps down a few and offers the bag to the others. There are no 
takers. Thirsty, he downs the ice cube and cracks it between his teeth.


			
		Okay. I'll look into it.

The MEN are surprised and excited.


		Wow! Do you think we have a chance?


		What do you want, a fortune teller or
		a lawyer? ... I'll need sworn
		depositions from each of you and a
		list of the other members of the
		platoon, or their survivors.


		Hey, this is great.


		I'll tell you, if we find the 
		military is implicated in any way,
		you could stand to recover quite a
		lot of money. Not that I can predict
		anything, but some class action suits
		of this kind have been awarded fairly
		generous judgements. That wouldn't be
		so bad, would it Mr. Singer?


		Doctor.
			(GEARY looks at him
			oddly)
		Ph.D.


		Ah! I thought you were a mailman.


		I am.


			
		Then why aren't you teaching? Why
		aren't you in a university?


		I'm too messed up to teach.


			
		Ah! Well then, they're going to have
		to pay for that, aren't they?

The MEN all nod in agreement.




JACOB and the others exit the OFFICE BUILDING. They are jubilant, 
clasping hands and smacking each other on the back. We watch as they 
break up. JACOB heads for the subway. FRANK and another group hop a 
cab. As the cab pulls away we notice that a black car pulls out behind 
it. It follows them out of sight.




JACOB and JEZZIE are making wild and unadulterated love on the kitchen 
floor. The wastebasket flips over. JACOB's hand splashes into the dog's 
bowl. Nothing impedes their passion. JEZZIE laughs, hollers, and 
swoons. Hands grab hold of table legs. Chairs topple. Feet bang wildly 
against the stove. It is all mayhem and ecstacy. And then it ends.

JACOB's face is ecstatic. He can barely talk and simply basks in 
JEZZIE's glow. She looks especially lovely and radiant. They lie 
exhausted and exhilarated on the linoleum floor.


		So tell me ... am I still an angel?


			
		With wings. You transport me, you
		know that? You carry me away.

JEZZIE kisses him softly around his face and gently probes his ear with 
her pinky. JACOB loves it.


		We're all angels, you know ...
			(she bites his earlobe.
			He winces)
		... and devils. It's just what you
		choose to see.


		I love you, Jez.


		I know.


		Underneath all the bullshit, just
		love.


		Remember that.


		You know what? I feel ... exorcised
		... like the demons are gone.


		How come? The army?


		In a way. At least now I have some
		idea of what was happening. If we can
		only get them to admit ... to explain
		what they did ... I don't know. Maybe
		it'd clear things up in my head. I'll
		tell you something, Jez, honestly
		... I thought they were real.

Silence. Suddenly JEZZIE roars like a monster and scares JACOB half to 
death. They laugh and tumble back to the floor.




JACOB emerges from the bathroom shower and pulls on a robe. JEZZIE is 
moving rapidly around the KITCHEN.


		I put a frozen dinner in the oven, a
		Manhandler. It'll be ready at a
		quarter of. I threw a little salad
		together. It's in the fridge. I also
		bought some apple juice, Red Cheek.
		Don't drink it all. Oh, and Jake,
		your lawyer called.


		He did? When?


			
		While you were in the shower.


		Why didn't you call me?


		He didn't give me a chance.
			
		Look, honey, don't get upset, but
		he's not taking your case.


			
		What? What do you mean?


		He said you didn't have one.


		What's he talking about?


		I don't know. That's all he said. He
		wasn't very friendly. Oh, yeah. He
		said your buddies backed down. They
		chickened out, he said.


		I don't believe this.


		Baby, I'm sorry. I feel terrible. I'd
		stay and talk but I'm so late. Look,
		don't be upset. We'll talk when I get
		home. See you around midnight.
			(she kisses him on the
			cheek)
		Bye. And don't brood. Watch T.V. or
		something.




The door slams securely. The locks set. JACOB begins instantly rifling 
through a desk drawer. He comes up with a frayed address book and looks 
up a number. He dials.


		Hello.


		Frank. It's Jake. Jacob SInger.

We see FRANK standing at a window fingering the Venetian blinds. He 
does not reply. The scene intercuts between the two men.


			
		Listen, I just got a strange call
		from Geary. He said the guys backed
		down. What's he talking about?


			(fingering the Venetian
			blinds)
		That's right. We did.


		What does that mean, Frank? I don't
		get it. Why?


		It's hard to explain.


			
		Well, try, huh.


		I don't know if I can. It's just that
		war is war. Things happen.


		Things happen? What the fuck are you
		talking about? They did something to
		us, Frank. We have to expose this.


		There's nothing to expose.


		Jesus Christ! Who's been talking to
		you?
			
		What's going on? How can you just
		turn away?
			
		What about the others?


		They're not interested, Jake.


		Shit! You know it's not half the case
		if I go it alone. We're all suffering
		the same symptoms, Frank. The army is
		to blame. They've done something to
		us. How can you not want to know?


			
		Maybe it's not the army, Jake.


		What do you mean?


		Maybe there's a larger truth.


		What are you talking about?


		Maybe the demons are real.


		Goddamn it. What kind of bullshit is
		that?


		Listen, Jake. I gotta go.


		What the hell? What kind of mumbo
		jumbo ... ?


		I'm hanging up.


		Hey, wait!


		Don't bother to call again, okay?

FRANK hangs up. JACOB stands holding the phone for a long time, until 
the high pitched whine from the receiver reminds him it's off the hook. 
The sound frightens him and he slams the receiver down. QUickly JACOB 
tears through his address book looking for other phone numbers. They 
aren't there.


		Shit!




JACOB hurries into the BEDROOM and pulls an old shoe box from the 
closet. The box is filled with yellowing army papers, dog tags, and 
photos of old comrades. Beneath his discharge papers he finds a sheet 
scribbled with the names and addresses of platoon buddies. JACOB grabs 
it. Then his eyes fall on the frayed remains of an old letter. He picks 
it up and unfolds it with great care. The letter is written in a 
child's handwriting. "DEAR DADDY, I LOVE YOU. PLEASE COME HOME. JED GOT 







GABE, on a BICYCLE, is rushing down the sidewalk. JACOB is running 
alongside him, holding onto the seat. Plastic streamers trail from the 
handlebars. GABE is a bit wobbly, but determined. After a couple of 
false starts, JACOB lets go and GABE is riding by himself. For an 
instant, GABE looks back at his father with a huge grin on his face. 
JACOB is grinning, too. THE CAMERA HOLDS ON GABE as he pulls away from 
us and heads into the distance.





JACOB swallows hard as he stands there, holding the letter. Suddenly 
his eyes lift off the page and glance at a full length mirror mounted 
on the bedroom door. Something in the mirror, like the image of a 
child, seems to move. He looks over. There is nothing there. Curious, 
JACOB walks toward the mirror. As his image appears, he gasps and stops 
moving. To his horror and ours, it is his own back that is reflected in 
the mirror. The impossibility of the moment startles him. He lifts his 
hand. The reflection moves with him. Frightened but defiant, JACOB 
moves toward the mirror. The image in the mirror spins around. It is 
the  FRIGHTENING VIBRATING FACE he saw at the party with JEZZIE. An 
unearthly scream comes from both their mouths.







A huge wooden door slams open. JACOB charges through it.

He is chasing his lawyer, DONALD GEARY, through a crowded court house 
corridor. GEARY, sweaty and unshaven, is cradling a Coke in one hand, a 
sandwich and a briefcase in the other. His stomach bounces wildly as he 
walks.


		Geary! Mr. Geary! Listen, goddamn it!
		You can't just walk away from this.

GEARY keeps walking. JACOB catches up to him.


			
		Who's been talking to you? The army?
		Have they been talking to you, huh?


		Nobody's been talking to nobody. You
		don't have a case, you hear me? It's
		pure and simple. Now leave me alone.
		Okay?

JACOB grabs the back of GEARY's jacket and pulls him up short.


			
		Take your hands off me!

JACOB lets go. He stares into GEARY's eyes.


		Listen, will you listen? They're
		trying to get me. They're comin' out
		of the walls. The army's done
		something to me. I need you.


		You need ... a doctor.


		A doctor? And what's he gonna do,
		tell me I'm crazy? They've fucked
		with my head. I've got to prove it.
		You've got to do something.

GEARY gives JACOB a pitiful look.


		There's nothing I can do.

He turns and walks away. JACOB stands there a moment, and then rushes 
after him. GEARY is biting into his sandwich.

Mayonnaise spills onto his hand. He licks it with his tongue. JACOB 
catches up to him.


		You mind? I'm eating, huh?


		Something's going on here. You're not
		telling me something. What the hell's
		gotten into you?


		I'll tell you what's gotten into me.
		I don't know you from Adam, right?
		You come to my office with this
		bizarro story and demand I look into
		it. Okay. I said I'd check it out and
		I did. Now I don't know what kind of
		fool you take me for, but you have
		used and abused me, and I don't like
		it.


		Used you?


		I talked to the Army's Bureau of
		Records. You've never even been to
		Viet Nam.


		What the hell is that supposed to
		mean?


		It means that you and your buddies
		are whacko, that you were discharged
		on psychological grounds after some
		war games in Thailand.


			
		War games? Thailand? That's not true!
		How can you believe that? Can't you
		see what they're doing? It's all a
		lie. We were in Da Nang, for God's
		sake. You've got to believe me.


		I don't have to do any such thing.
		I'm eating my lunch, okay?

GEARY takes a swig of his COKE and begins walking away. JACOB, enraged, 
charges after him. With a wild swipe he sends the COKE CAN shooting out 
of GEARY's hand. It reverberates down the corridor. GEARY is stunned.


		You slimy bastard! You goddamn piece
		of shit!

With a powerful thrust, JACOB rips the sandwich from GEARY's other 
hand. Tossing it on the floor, he grinds his heel in it. Tomato and 
mayonnaise squirt onto GEARY's shoe. JACOB turns away.


CUT TO JACOB walking down the COURT HOUSE CORRIDOR to the elevators. 
There is a look of satisfaction on his face.


CUT BACK TO GEARY. He picks up a telephone and dials. Someone comes on 
the line. GEARY speaks quietly.


		He's on his way.

CUT TO JACOB stepping onto the elevator. The doors close. The Muzak is 
playing "Sonny Boy" with Al Jolson singing. JACOB is surprised to hear 
it. He presses the down button for the main floor.


The elevator stops at the LOBBY. The doors open swiftly. SEVERAL 
SOLDIERS are standing there. They approach JACOB.


		Let's go, Singer.

JACOB is shocked to see them. He tries to get away but two of the 
SOLDIERS yank him toward the LOBBY doors.


		You're coming with us.




JACOB is hustled to a waiting car and shoved inside, in between two 
officious looking MEN. The doors lock from the DRIVER's command.


		Mr. Singer. What an appropriate name
		for a man who can't keep his mouth
		shut.

The car drives off.


		Who are you? What do you want?


		We've been watching you for a long
		time. You and your friends. You've
		been exhibiting some very odd
		behavior. Frightening people with
		foolish talk about demons - and
		experiments.

JACOB tries to speak but the other MAN grabs his mouth.


		You're in over your head, Mr. Singer.
		Men drown that way. The army was
		another part of your life. Forget it.
		It is dead and buried. Let it lie.


		I hope we have made our point, Mr.
		Singer.

JACOB stares at the men for a moment and then goes totally berserk. 
Letting out a howl, he begins pounding and thrashing like a madman. He 
is totally out of control.

With a wild leap, he grabs for the door handle. The door flies open. It 
flaps back and forth, slamming into parked cars. JACOB tries to jump 
out, but the men yank him back in. One of them pulls out a gun. JACOB 
sees it and goes crazy. His feet kick in all directions, slamming the 
DRIVER's nose into the steering wheel and shattering the side window.

The car careens around a corner sending the gun flying to the floor. 
The men dive for it. It lodges beneath the seat. In the mayhem, JACOB 
throws himself out of the flapping door and sprawls onto the pavement. 
People look down at him as the car speeds away.




JACOB grabs his back. He is in excruciating pain. He tries to get up, 
but can't move. He reaches out to people passing by, but they ignore 
him and hurry past.

A SALVATION ARMY SANTA has been watching the entire scene. After a 
moment's consideration he leaves his post and ambles over to JACOB. He 
leans down and steals his wallet.


		Merry Christmas.




CUT TO THE SOUND OF A SIREN as an AMBULANCE races through the streets.




AN AMBULANCE CREW rushes JACOB to a HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM.


		He's been screaming like a madman.
		You better get something in him.


			
		Hi. I'm Doctor Stewart. Can you tell
		me what happened?


		My back. I can't move. I need my
		chiropractor.


		Your back? Did you fall?


		They said he slipped on the ice. May
		have hit his head.


		Does he have any identification?


		No waller. Nothing.


		They stole it.


		Who did?


		I don't know. Santa Claus. I had my
		son's picture in it. Gabe's picture.
		It's the only one I had.


		We better get an orthopedic man in
		here. Is Dr. Davis on call?


		I'll page him.


		Call my chiropractor.


		We're doing everything we can.


		Louis Schwartz. Nostrand Avenue.


		I'm going to have to move you a bit,
		just to check for injuries. This may
		hurt a little.


		No. Don't move me.

The RESIDENT ignores him. JACOB screams.


		I don't have to ask if you can feel
		that.


		Goddamn it. I want Louis.


		Who's Louis?


		He's out of it. I'm taking him down
		to X-ray.

An ORDERLY pushes the gurney through a pair of sliding doors. JACOB 
tries to get up but the pain keeps him immobilized.




JACOB begins a journey down what appears to be an endless series of 
corridors. The wheels of the gurney turn with a hypnotic regularity. 
The smooth tile floor gives way to roguh cement. The ORDERLY's feet 
plod through pools of blood that coagulate in cracks and crevices along 
the way. The surface grows rougher, the wheels more insistent. Body 
parts and human bile splash against the walls as the gurney moves 
faster.


		Where are you taking me? Where am I?


		You know where you are.

JACOB, panicked, tries again to get up but to no effect. He glances to 
the side and sees mournful CREATURES being led into dark rooms. No one 
fights or struggles. We hear muffled screams from behind closed doors. 
Occasionally he glances inside the rooms and sees mangled bodies in 
strange contraptions, people in rusty iron lungs, and hanging from 
metal cages. Dark eyes peer out in horror. In one room a baseboard 
heater bursts into flame. No one seems concerned. A door opens. A 
bicycle with plastic streamers on the handlebars lies crushed and 
mangled. One of its wheels is still spinning. JACOB cries out but it is 
not his voice we hear. Rather it is a familiar unearthly roar. His 
whole body stiffens. As he rounds the corner he sees a figure, its head 
vibrating in endless terror. it is the same image he has seen before. 
JACOB screams.




JACOB is wheeled into a tiny ROOM. A numer of "DOCTORS" are waiting. As 
they draw closer JACOB notices that something about them is not right. 
They bear a subtle resemblance to Bosch-like DEMONS, creatures of 
another world. JACOB tries to sit up but winces in pain. He cannot 
move. He tries to scream but no sound comes out.

Chains and pulleys hang from the ceiling. They are lowered and attached 
with speed and efficiency to JACOB's arms and legs. He screams.


		Oh God!

The "DOCTORS" laugh. There is the sound of a huge door closing. JACOB 
is left in semi-darkness. Suddenly a new group of "DOCTORS" emerges 
from the shadows. They are carrying sharp surgical instruments. They 
surround JACOB, their eyes glistening as bright as their blades. JACOB 
is panting and sweating in fear. One of the "DOCTORS" leans over JACOB. 
He gasps with horror. It is JEZZIE.




She pays no attention to him. He stares at her, THE CAMERA TILTING DOWN 
HER BODY. As it gets to her foot we see it is a decaying mass, swarming 
with maggots. The "DOCTORS" laugh. They take great pleasure in his 
suffering. Their voices are strange and not human. Each utterance 
contains a multitude of contradictory tones, sincere and compassionate, 
taunting and mocking at the same time. The confusion of meanings is a 
torment of its own.


			
		Get me out of here.


		Where do you want to go?


		Take me home.


		Home?
			
		This is your home. You're dead.


		Dead? No. I just hurt my back. I'm
		not dead.


		What are you then?


		I'm alive.


		Then what are you doing here?


		I don't know. I don't know.
			(he struggles like an
			animal)
		This isn't happening.


		What isn't happening?


		Let me out of here!


		There is no out of here. You've been
		killed. Don't you remember?

A "DOCTOR" approaches JACOB. As he turns, we notice with horror that he 
has no eyes or eye sockets. He extracts a long needle from his belt and 
positions it over JACOB's head. Like a divining rod it locates a 
particular point near the crown of his head. With a powerful thrust the 
"DOCTOR" shoves the needle into JACOB's skull and pushes it slowly into 
his brain. JACOB howls.




CUT RAPIDLY TO VIETNAM and a replay of flashes of the opening sequence 
of the film. SOLDIERS with bayonets are charging over rice paddies in 
the dark of the night. ONE OF THE SOLDIERS charges at JACOB with a long 
bayonet blade and jams it into his intestines. JACOB cries out.







		Remember?


		No! That was years ago! I've lived
		years since then.


		It's all been a dream.


		No! The army did this to me! They've
		done something to my brain.
			
		Jezzie! I want my boys! Sarah! I'm
		not dead! I want my family!

The "DOCTORS" laugh and back away, disappearing into the darkness.




Suddenly a fluorescent light flashes overhead. NORMAL HOSPITAL WALLS 
materialize instantaneously around him. A NURSE enters the room 
followed by SARAH, ELI, and JED. They approach JACOB who is lying in 
traction, suspended over a hospital bed.


		He's still pretty doped up. I don't
		think he'll be able to talk yet and I
		doubt that he'll recognize you.


		I just want to see him.


			
		Dad. Hi. It's us. We just found out.


		You look terrible. Does that hurt?


		I'll be outside if you need me.


		Jake. It's me. We heard what
		happened.


			(his voice hoarse,
			nearly whispering)
		I'm not dead. I am not dead.


		No. Of course you're not. You've just
		hurt your back. That's all. You're
		going to be fine. It'll just take
		some time.


		A month, they said.


			
		You just hang in there, Dad.


			
		That's not funny.
			(she reaches over and
			rubs JACOB's brow)
		What a mess, huh? God I wish there
		was something I could do. I love you,
		Jacob. For whatever that's worth. I
		do.

There is a sudden sound of "DOCTORS" laughing. JACOB jerks his head 
painfully, but does not see them.


		Dream on!


			(yelling at the unseen
			voice)
		No! Oh God.


		Jacob, what can I do?


		Save me!

JACOB's plea confuses SARAH. She responds with a kiss.




DAYLIGHT streams through the window in JACOB's ROOM. He is still in 
traction and looks very uncomfortable. A new NURSE enters holding a 
plastic container with a straw poking out.


		Well, don't we look better this
		morning? That was a hard night,
		wasn't it?


		Where am I?


		Lennox Hospital.


		I'm awake?


		You look awake to me. Here.
			(she holds the straw to
			his lips)
		Drink some of this.


			(staring at her
			intently)
		Where's Sarah? Where did she go?
			(the NURSE gives him a
			strange look)
		She was here ...


		No. No. You haven't had any visitors.


		That's a lie. My family was here.


		I'm sorry.


		Last night! They were as real as you
		are!

The NURSE smiles and nods in appeasement.


		This is not a dream! This is my life.


		Of course it is. What else could it
		be?

She giggles nervously. There is a funny glint in her eyes. JACOB looks 
away. He doesn't want to see it.







There is a loud commotion in the HALL. We see LOUIS SCHWARTZ, JACOB's 
chiropractor, screaming JACOB's name.


		Jacob! Jacob Singer!

JACOB yells.


		Louis! I'm here! In here!




LOUIS storms through JACOB's door followed by several NURSES and 






		You can't go in there!


		You're going to have to leave.

LOUIS stares furiously at JACOB stretched out on the traction 
apparatus. He begins to yell.


		Good God, Jake. What have they done?
			(he examines JACOB and
			screams at the NURSES)
		What is this, the Middle Ages? And
		they call this modern medicine. This
		is barbaric! Barbaric!
			
		It's okay, Jake. It's not serious.
		I'll get you out of here.
			
		What is this, the Inquisition? Why
		don't you just burn him at the stake
		and put him out of his misery?

LOUIS charges over to the traction equipment and begins working the 
pulleys that suspend JACOB over the bed. The NURSES and ORDERLIES 
become instantly hysterical and start screaming.


		What the hell do you think ... ?


		Don't you come near me.


		You can't do that!


		What is this, a prison? Stay back.


		You can't. Call the police.

One of the ORDERLIES lunges at LOUIS who swings back at him with one of 
the pulley chains. It just misses.


			
		You take one step and I'll wrap this
		around your neck.

LOUIS lowers JACOB into a wheelchair while holding the others at bay.


			
		Hold on, Jake, we're getting out of
		here.

NURSES and ORDERLIES part as he pushes him quickly from the room.







LOUIS helps JACOB over to an adjusting table in a room that, compared 
with the hospital, is comfortable and serene. He pushes a lever and the 
table rises to a vertical position. JACOB leans against it and rides it 
down to a horizontal position. Every moment is agony for him.


		Half an hour from now and you'll be
		walking out of here all by yourself.
		Mark my words.
			(JACOB barely hears
			them)
		Well, you've done it to yourself this
		time, haven't you?


			
		Am I dead, Louis?
			(LOUIS leans over to
			hear)
		Am I dead?


			
		From a slipped disc? That'd be a
		first.


		I was in Hell. I've been there. It's
		horrible. I don't want to die, Louis.


		Well, I'll see what I can do about
		it.


		I've seen it. It's all pain.


			(working on JACOB's
			spine like a master
			mechanic)
		You ever read Meister Eckart?
			(JACOB shakes his head
			"no")
		How did you ever get your Doctorate
		without reading Eckart?
			(LOUIS takes hold of
			JACOB's legs and yanks
			them swiftly)
		Good. Okay, let's turn over gently.
		Right side.

JACOB turns to his left. LOUIS shakes his head in dismay.


		The other "right," okay?
			(he helps JACOB turn
			over)
		You're a regular basket case, you
		know that?
			(he moves JACOB's arm
			over his head)
		Eckart saw Hell, too.

LOUIS positions JACOB's other arm, bends his legs, and then pushes down 
on his thigh. His spine moves with a cracking sound. JACOB groans.


			
		You know what he said? The only thing
		that burns in Hell is the part of you
		that won't let go of your life; your
		memories, your attachments. They burn
		'em all away. But they're not punish-
		ing you, he said. They're freeing
		your soul. Okay, other side.

He helps JACOB and repositions him. Again he pushes and the spine 
cracks.


			
		Wonderful. So the way he sees it, if
		you're frightened of dying and hold-
		ing on, you'll see devils tearing
		your life away. But if you've made
		your peace then the devils are really
		angels freeing you from the earth.
		It's just a matter of how you look at
		it, that's all. So don't worry, okay?
		Relax. Wiggle your toes.

JACOB's toes dance as LOUIS gives him a quick, unexpected jab to the 
lower vertebrae in his back.


			
		Perfect. We got it.
			(LOUIS pushes a lever
			and the table rises back
			up)
		Okay. Let's just give it a little
		try. See if you can stand.


		What? By myself?


		You can do it. Come on. Easy. Just
		give it a try.

JACOB steps cautiously away from the table. He moves hesitantly, with 
deliberate restraint. LOUIS encourages him like a faith healer coaxing 
the lame. His first steps have an aura of the miraculous about them. 
JACOB walks slowly, without help. LOUIS smiles impishly. He looks like 
a giant cherub.


		Hallelujah.

LOUIS puts his arm around him. Then JACOB tries again, gradually 
rediscovering his balance and strength. With each step his confidence 
returns. LOUIS is pleased. Then, suddenly, without warning, JACOB turns 
and heads toward the door.


		What are you doing?


		There's something I've gotta take
		care of, Louis.


		What are you talking about? You can
		barely stand.


		I'm walking, aren't I?


		Jake, you need to rest.


		Not tonight, Louis. No more rest.

He walks slowly out the door. LOUIS starts to go after him. JACOB turns 
around and shakes his head "no." The look on his face is firm and 
defiant. LOUIS stands back and lets him go.


		I love you, Louis.




CUT TO A SDIREN BLARING and a fire engine racing through the streets of 
lower MANHATTAN. A CROWD is forming. Banks of lights and television 
cameras amass in the cold night air. Police cars and mobile units rush 
to the scene.

CUT TO JACOB. In one hand he is holding a brightly lit torch. In the 
other he is holding a container of gasoline and pouring it on the steps 
of the U.S. ARMY RECRUITING HEADQUARTERS. The volatile liquid splashes 
against his pants and shoes and runs down the pavement. A five gallon 
container lies emptying nearby. Gasoline belches from it insistently 
and pours onto the street. Bystanders back away as the gasoline snakes 
toward them.

Television cameras and microphones are pointing in JACOB's direction, 
but at a safe distance. He is yelling at them, his teeth chattering 
from the cold.


		Listen to me. There were four
		companies in our batallion. Five
		hundred men. Seven of us were left
		when it was over. Seven! Four
		companies engaged in an enemy
		offensive that not one of us who
		survived can remember fighting.


		Use the torch!


		Shut up! Let him talk!

POLICE AMBULANCES are arriving at the scene. FIREMEN ready hoses at 
nearby hydrants. T.V. CAMERAS are rolling.


			
		You don't forget a battle where 500
		men were killed. They did something
		to us. I want to know the truth, the
		goddamn truth. We have a right to
		know.
			(he yells toward the
			cameras)
		Are you getting all this? I want this
		on national T.V. I want the whole
		country, the whole world to know.

He holds up the torch. A loudspeaker blares through the crowd.


		Throw that torch away, young man.
		Give yourself up. You're under
		arrest.


		For what? For seeking the truth?


		Please come quietly.


		You come near me and I'll blow us all
		up.


		We're not going to hurt you.


		Give him a chance to talk!


		The army will deny it. They've
		falsified my records. They've lied to
		my lawyer, threatened my buddies. But
		they can't threaten me.


		You tell 'em!


		Use the torch!


		Okay, let's clear the area. Everyone
		out.

Suddenly a lighted match flies in JACOB's direction. JACOB is enraged. 
He brandishes the torch at the crowd.


		What the fuck do you think you're
		doing?

Another match hurls toward him and dies in mid-air. PEOPLE on the 
fringe of the crowd begin to run. JACOB does not move.


		Clear the area. This is an order!


		What is wrong with you?

We hear laughter from PEOPLE in the crowd. As JACOB looks out into some 
of their eyes he sees demons looking back. One of them throws another 
match. Crazed, JACOB runs toward them. PEOPLE jump back.

Suddenly JACOB freezes. Standing on the sidelines, he sees one of the 
ARMY OFFICIALS who trapped him in the car. He is reaching for a gun. 
JACOB, stunned, yells at the top of hhis lungs.




With a defiant roar, he hurls the torch straight up into the air. We 
see it from high above the crowd spinning higher and higher. All eyes 
stare upward watching it in a kind of wonder. Then, reaching its apex, 
just below the camera, it begins its descent. The eyes of the crowd 
turn to fear. SOMEONE yells.


		He'll burn us all!

Screams fill the air as PEOPLE scramble to escape the potential 
conflagration. Only JACOB remains motionless, standing silently, almost 
heroically, in the middle of it all.

Suddenly the torch hits the ground and a pool of gasoline ignites with 
a blinding flare that sends flames shooting in all directions. PEOPLE 
panic. T.V. REPORTERS and CAMERAMEN run for their lives. The ARMY 
OFFICIALS run, too. The flames travel toward the Army Headquarters and 
rush along the curb. Water hoses are trying to douse them as they 
spread. JACOB, surprisingly untouched by the fire, walks slowly through 
the frightened crowds, as if in a daze. Viewed through the flames the 
scene momentarily resembles a vision of Hell.




JACOB, stark naked and covered with goose bumps, runs his hands under a 
shower spray. The water is freezing and taking forever to warm up. 
Anxious, he dashes past his gasoline drenched clothes, grabs a suitcase 
from the BEDROOM closet, and stuffs it with clothes. Then he hurries 
back to the shower, tests it, and jumps in.

Lather covers JACOB's hair and hangs over his tightly closed eyes. His 
entire body is covered in suds. He is washing as quickly as he can. 
Suddenly he hears a noise as someone enters the BATHROOM. He tenses.


		Who's there? Who is it?

JACOB struggles to rinse the soap from his eyes. They are burning. 
There is a shadow behind the curtain.


			
		Goddamn it! Who's there?

JACOB rubs his eyes, fighting to see. Suddenly the shower curtain is 
thrown back. JACOB backs against the wall. A hand reaches in and pulls 
his nipple, pinching hard.


		It's just me.


		Jezzie?


		Who else were you expecting?


		Let go!


		Where were you, Jake? Where've you
		been? Why haven't you called?


		Stay away from me, Jez.


		I want to know. You tell me!


		You wanna know? Turn on the T.V.
		Watch the fucking news!

He pushes her away and jumps out of the shower.

CUT TO JACOB dressing and piling the last of his clothes into his 
suitcase. JEZZIE, in a robe, is watching him.


		Why are you doing this to me? You
		can't just go away like that.


		I can do anything I want.

She stares at him with confusion. THE PHONE RINGS.


		Don't!


		It might be for me.


		I'm not here. You haven't seen me.


			(picking up the
			receiver)
		Hello ... No. He's not here. I
		haven't seen him all night ... I
		don't know when ... What? Tell him
		what?
			
		Vietnam? ... What experiments?

JACOB lunges for the phone.


		Hello. This is Jacob Singer.
			(he listens with growing
			fascination)
		God almighty! ... Yes. Yes. Right.
		Where would you like to meet?
			
		How will I know you.
			(JACOB seems
			uncomfortable)
		Okay. I'll be there.

He hangs up the phone and stands silently for a moment.


		Who was that?


		A chemist. Part of a chemical warfare
		unit out of Saigon. He said he knows me
		and that I'll know him when I see him.


		How?


		I have no idea.
			
		I was right. There were experiments.
		I knew it. I knew it. My God.


		How do you know he's telling the
		truth?

JACOB stares at JEZZIE for several moments but does not respond. The 
11:00 NEWS is coming on. JACOB's image can be seen on the screen. We 
hear the NEWSCASTER speaking.


		Leading the news tonight, a bizarre
		demonstration on the steps of the
		U.S. Army Recruiting Headquarters, in
		downtown Manhattan. Jacob Singer, an
		alleged Vietnam vet ...


		Alleged? Alleged?


		... challenged the United States Army
		to admit conducting secret experi-
		ments involving hundreds of American
		soldiers during the Vietnam war.

JEZZIE stares at the T.V., dumbfounded. JACOB takes his suitcase and 
hurries to the front door. He opens it a crack and peers into the 
hallway. JEZZIE runs after him.


			
		Don't leave me, Jake.




JACOB gazes at JEZZIE for a moment and then hurries down the HALL. He 
stops at the stairwell and looks back. JEZZIE is still standing there. 
She is very angry. JACOB just stares at her for a moment and then 
disappears down the stairwell.




JACOB is standing near the WESTSIDE HIGHWAY. GROUPS OF MEN in black 
leather jackets are crusing the area and look at JACOB with curiosity. 
One MAN in particular cruises by several times and then approaches him.


		Jacob? Hi. I'm Michael Newman.
		Friends call me Mike.

JACOB is startled when he sees him. He is the same YOUNG MAN who has 
appeared throughout the film, assisting JACOB in moments of crisis.


			
		Surprised, huh? I told you you'd know
		me. I've been tracking you for a long
		time. I just wish I'd spoken to you
		before tonight.


		I don't get it. Who are you? Why have
		you been following me?


		Observation, mainly. Clinical study.
		You were one of the survivors.

A POLICE CAR passes them on the street. MICHAEL grabs JACOB's shoulder 
and turns him away nervously.


			
		Come on, we're not safe around here.




JACOB and MICHAEL are sitting on a deserted WEST SIDE PIER that juts 
into the Hudson River. JACOB is wide-eyed as he listens to MICHAEL's 
story.


		So first I'm arrested, right? Best
		LSD I ever made, right down the
		drain. I figure this is it, twenty
		years in the joint, if I'm lucky.
		That was '68.


		Long time ago.


			
		Next thing I know I'm on Rikers
		Island. Ever been there?
			
		Suddenly they take me from my cell to
		the visitors room with those bank
		teller windows, you know. Four army
		colonels, medals up their asses, are
		standing on the other side. They tell
		me if I'll come to Vietnam for two
		years, no action, mind you, just work
		in a lab, they'll drop all the
		charges and wipe the record clean.
		Well, I'd only been in jail for
		thirteen hours and I already knew
		that Nam couldn't be any worse.


		Shows how much you knew.


		No shit. They had me by the balls.
		Next thing I know I'm in Saigon ...
		in a secret lab synthesizing mind-
		altering drugs. Not the street stuff
		mind you. They had us isolating
		special properties. The dark side,
		you know? They wanted a drug that
		increased aggressive tendencies.


		Yeah, sure. We were losing the war.


		Right. They were worried. They
		figured you guys were too soft. They
		wanted something to stir you up, tap
		into your anger, you know? And we did
		it. The most powerful thing I ever
		saw. Even a bad trip, and I had my
		share, never compared to the fury of
		the Ladder.


		The Ladder?


		That's what they called it. A fast
		trip right down the ladder.
			(he makes a downward
			dive with his hand)
		Right to the primal fear, the base
		anger. I'm tellin' you, it was
		powerful stuff. But I don't need to
		tell you. You know.

JACOB can barely catch his breath, the information he is receiving is 
so powerful to his mind.


			
		We did experiments on jungle monkeys.
		They bashed each other's heads in,
		gouged out their eyes, chewed off
		their tails. The brass loved it. Then
		they made us try it on Charlie.
			
		They took these POW's, just kids
		really, and put 'em in a courtyard.
		We fed 'em huge doses of the stuff.
			(he stops for a moment;
			a tear rolls down his
			cheek)
		They were worse than the monkeys. I
		never knew men could do such things.
		The whole thing still blows me away.

MICHAEL stands up and begins walking in circles around the PIER. JACOB, 
astounded, gets up and walks beside him.


			
		Anyway, this big offensive was coming
		up. Everyone knew it; Time Magazine,
		Huntley-Brinkley. And the brass was
		scared 'cause they knew we couldn't
		win. Morale was down. It was gettin'
		ugly in the States. Hell, you
		remember.


		Like it was yesterday.


		A couple days later they decided to
		use the Ladder, on one test
		battalion. Yours. Just in an
		infintessimal dose in the food
		supply, to prove its effectiveness in
		the field. They were sure your unit
		would have the highest kill ratio in
		the whole goddamn offensive. And you
		did, too. But not the way they
		tnought.

JACOB is beginning to shake. MICHAEL pulls a container of pills out of 
his jacket pocket.


			
		Hey, want something to calm you down?
		Made 'em myself.

JACOB shakes his head no.


		None of us can remember that night. I
		get flashes of it but they don't make
		sense. We saw shrinks for years. But
		nothing they did could ever touch it.
		What happened? Was there ever an
		offensive?


		A couple of days later. It was
		fierce. You guys never saw it.


		But there was an attack. I can still
		see them coming. There was a fight,
		wasn't there?


		Yeah. But not with the Cong.


		Who then?

He hesitates, obviously uncomfortable. His eyes grow puffy. He looks at 
the river for a moment and then turns to JACOB.


		You killed each other.

JACOB's mouth drops open. The words hit him like a truck.




Gunfire explodes in the darkening sky. We are in Vietnam. JACOB is at 
the bottom of a trench fighting with FRANK. Chaos surrounds them. Men 
are screaming. The ENEMY is storming at them from the rear. ROD raises 
his bayonet and jams it into the belly of his ATTACKER. It is only 
after a series of jabs that he sees it's another American he's killed. 
ROD's eyes go blank with confusion and terror.


		Oh my God! WHAT'S HAPPENING?

JACOB looks up from the trench and sees a continuing wave of AMERICAN 
SOLDIERS bearing down on them. FRANK jumps up, knocking JACOB to the 
ground and slamming his rifle into JACOB's back. As he spins around 
JACOB sees another SOLDIER charging at him. His bayonet is aimed at 
JACOB's stomach. For the first time JACOB remembers the face of his 
attacker. He is a YOUNG MAN, about 19 years old, clean cut, wearing 
glasses. The two men stare at each other in terrible confusion. It 
seems like a moment out of time. And then the SOLDIER lurches forward 
and rams his bayonet deep into JACOB's abdomen.

CUT TO MICHAEL BACK ON THE PIER. JACOB is ashen-faced.


		It was brother against brother. No
		discrimination. You tore each other
		to pieces. I knew it would happen. I
		warned them. I WARNED THEM. But I was
		just a hippie chemist, right? Jesus!
		And I helped 'em make the stuff ... I
		talked to the guys who bagged the
		bodies. They're in worse shape than
		you, believe me. They saw what was
		left. It's a blessing you don't
		remember. Of course the brass covered
		the whole thing up right away. Blamed
		it all on a surprise attack.
			he pauses)
		I needed to find you. The Ladder was
		my baby.

Tears start flowing down MICHAEL's face. He wipes them with his sleeve. 
It takes him a moment to regain his composure. JACOB is shivering. 
MICHAEL takes off his jacket, drapes it over JACOB, and leads him to 
the wooden planks overhanging the water. They sit and gaze at the 



CUT TO A WIDE SHOT OF MICHAEL AND JACOB in pre-dawn light.


		I always suspected the effects might
		come back. That's why I had to follow
		you. I had a hell of a time getting
		hold of your records.


		If you knew, why didn't you say
		anything?


		The truth can kill, my friend. Five
		hundred men died out there. This
		isn't a story they'd ever want out.
		When Paul's car blew up I realized
		the scope of the thing. I knew they
		meant business.


		So why tell me now?


		Because I can get rid of the demons.
		I can block the Ladder. I have an
		antidote. We can kill them off,
		chemically speaking. They'll all
		disappear. It's chemistry, my friend.
		I know. I created it. Come with me. I
		can help.




JACOB and MICHAEL enter a sleazy HOTEL near the docks, obviously 
frequented by a gay clientele. JACOB is uncomfortable as they check in. 
MICHAEL, however, seems to know the ropes. They go to a small room.


		You come here often?


		Sometimes. When it's convenient.


		How do I know this isn't just some
		kind of, you know, seduction or
		something?


		Hey, I'm not the problem. You've got
		bigger problems than me.

MICHAEL reaches into his pocket and casually extracts a vial.


			
		I came up with the formula back in
		Nam but I never got a chance to use
		it.


		Never?


		I'd hoped I'd never have to. Just
		open your mouth and stick out your
		tongue.


		What is it?


		Don't worry. Take it. It'll free your
		head. Come on.


			
		I don't know.


		"Yea though I walk through the valley
		of the shadow of death I shall fear
		no evil," but no one ever said I
		wouldn't be shittin' in my pants
		every step of the way, huh?
			(JACOB smiles, his mouth
			open)
		Stick out your tongue.
			(JACOB obeys as an
			eyedropper deposits a
			drop of liquid on the
			back of his tongue)
		That'a boy. Now why don't you just
		lie down and relax.


		One drop?


		It's strong stuff.

JACOB stretches out on the bed. He stares up at the ceiling and 
examines its pock-marked lunar look. Long cracks and shallow craters 
erode the surface. It is an alien terrain.


		I think I'm falling asleep.


		Pleasant dreams.

The words send a jolt through JACOB's body. He tries to get up but 
can't. He's frightened.


		I can't move.


		Just relax.


		What's happening? Help me.

The ceiling begins to rumble. Cracks split wide open. Huge crevasses 
tear through the plaster. JACOB's world is crumbling. He stares in 
horror as DEMONIC FORMS attempt to surge through the rupture above him. 
Piercing eyes and sharp teeth glimmer in the darkness. Hooved feet and 
pointed claws clamor to break through.


			


Instantly MICHAEL appears standing over him. He is holding the vial 
with the antidote. He draws an eyedropper full of the fluid and holds 
it over JACOB's mouth.


		Take it!

JACOB fights him, but MICHAEL forces the entire contents of the 
eyedropper down his throat. JACOB gags. He tries to spit it out, but 
can't.

Suddenly the ceiling erupts in violent clashes as whole chunks break 
off and collide like continental plates. The collisons wreak havoc on 
the DEMONS, chopping and dismembering them. Body parts fall from the 
ceiling like a Devil's rain. Horrible screams echo from the other side.


			
		Don't fight it. It's your own mind.
		It's your own fears.

Flashes of light and dark storm over JACOB's head, thundering like a 
war in the heavens. It is a scene of raw power and growing catastrophe. 
It builds in fury and rage until suddenly the ceiling explodes. JACOB's 
eyes stare into the formlessness expanding around him. All space is 
becoming a dark liquid void.

Gradually the liquid grows bluer, clearer. There is an undulating sense 
to the imagery, a feeling of womb-like comfort. Strange lights appear 
and sparkle before us like sunlight on the ocean. JACOB is rushing 
upward, toward the surface.

With the delirious sound of water giving way to air, JACOB breaks 
through. To his amazement, he finds himself floating out-stretched on 
shimmering sunlit water. Above him are clouds of such wondrous beauty 
that they cannot possibly be of the earth. Pillars of golden light 
reach down from the heavens creating a cathedral of light. It is a 
vision of heaven, a vast, almost mythic paradise. JACOB is awed.

A sudden movement catches his attention. He looks over and sees MICHAEL 
standing before him. Only MICHAEL looks different. His face seems to 
radiate an inner light, a transcendental beauty. JACOB is nearly 
blinded by his presence and must shield his eyes to look at him.


		So, how you doin'?

The casualness of the words catches JACOB by surprise. He sits up. To 
his shock and amazement, he finds that he is back in THE HOTEL ROOM. 
MICHAEL is standing at the foot of the bed. JACOB is totally 
disoriented. His eyes move slowly around the room, taking everything 
in. He doesn't speak.


			
		It was better than you expected, huh?

JACOB just stares at him for a while and then suddenly begins to laugh. 
It is a huge laugh, full of energy and life.


			
		And no more demons. I told you they'd
		be gone.


		I don't believe this. It's a miracle,
		Michael. A miracle.


		Better living through chemistry,
		that's my motto.




JACOB and MICHAEL are walking through the STREETS OF GREENWICH VILLAGE. 
It is early MORNING and the sidewalks are bustling with PEOPLE. JACOB 
stares into their faces and beams when they smile back. MICHAEL enjoys 
JACOB's happiness.




JACOB and MICHAEL walk through WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK.


		It was paradise, Michael. You showed
		it to me. You were there.


		Well that's good to know.


		Mike, it was real. It was glorious.


		Glorious. I'm not surprised. I fed
		you enough of that stuff to send a
		horse to heaven. I'm just glad you
		came back.


		I would have stayed there if I could.


		I'm sure. You've got nothing but
		troubles waitin' for you here.

He points to two POLICEMEN on the far side of the SQUARE.


			
		Come on.




The TWO MEN head up to GRAMERCY PARK and stop in front of the GRAMERCY 
PARK HOTEL. Reaching into his wallet, MICHAEL pulls out a huge stack of 
credit cards and hands one to JACOB.


		Here. I've got every credit card ever
		printed. Take this. Stay here till
		you can arrange to get away. It's on
		me.


		No. I couldn't.


		What? You want the Plaza? Don't be
		foolish. Here. Take this, too.
			(he pulls out a business
			card)
		This is my place on Prince Street.
		It's got my phone, everything. Call
		if you need me ... but you won't.
		Everything's gonna work out. You just
		get outta town as fast as you can.
		The New York police can be effective
		when they want to be.


		I don't know what to say.


		Save the words ... Just send back my
		credit card.

MICHAEL laughs, hugs JACOB, and walks away.




JACOB is in a lovely MOTEL ROOM overlooking GRAMERCY SQUARE. He is 
sprawled out happily on the bed when there is a knock at the door. He 
jumps up and opens it. JEZZIE is standing there. She looks at JACOB 
quizzically. He smiles and takes her in his arms, swinging her into the 
room.


		What are you doing here? Are you all
		right? How do you expect to pay for
		this?
			
		Everyone's looking for you, Jake. I
		dodged people all over the place,
		reporters, police. I don't know what
		you're gonna do.


		I'm gonna make love to you. That's
		what I'm gonna do.


		Are you out of your mind?


		Yep. Finally. I love you, Jez.


		God, I can't keep up with all your
		changes.


		Me neither.


		What's gotten into you?

JACOB grins.

CUT TO JACOB and JEZZIE lying in bed gently caressing one another. For 
all his ardor JACOB is exhausted from the events of the preceding day. 
While stroking JEZZIE's hair he begins to fall asleep. JEZZIE crawls on 
top of him and shoves her hand down his pants. JACOB smiles.

DISSOLVE TO JACOB and JEZZIE making love.





DISSOLVE TO JACOB and JEZZIE lying in front of the T.V. watching a 
romantic movie. JEZZIE snuggles up to JACOB.


		It's amazing, you know, that a drug
		could change things like that,
		destroy a life and then give it back.
		It's hard to believe that the world
		could be so hellish on day and like
		heaven the next.


		I tell you, it was so wonderful. I
		felt like a little boy. I saw
		Paradise, Jezzie.


		It's so hard to believe.

There is a knock at the door. JACOB throws on a bathrobe. JEZZIE jumps 
under the sheets.


		Who's there?


		It's your dinner, sir.

JEZZIE's eyes brighten. JACOB opens the door. A BELLBOY wheels in a 
table set for dinner. He sets it in a corner of the room. JEZZIE jumps 
out of bed, runs to the table, sniffs at the food, and squeals 
excitedly.


		This is one of my dreams, Jake. Ever
		since I was a little girl. I never
		thought it would happen.


		Stick with me, kid.

JEZZIE smiles.




DISSOLVE to JACOB and JEZZIE sitting next to a large window overlooking 
GRAMERCY PARK. They are sipping champagne.


		I want to go with you, Jake. Wherever
		you go.


		It's not practical, Jez. It'll be
		hard enough alone.


		I can waitress. I'm good.


		No. Things are too hot. Later. I'll
		send for you.


		Bullshit!


		I promise.


		Please.


		No. I'm a marked man, Jez. I'm the
		only one left. I don't want to expose
		you to that. It's not right for you
		or me. Be reasonable.


		Reasonable? Reasonable? Jake ...
		You're gettin' me angry.


		I love you when you're angry.


		Oh yeah?
			(her eyes twinkle
			suggestively)
		Try leavin' without me.

JACOB laughs. JEZZIE doesn't. Unexpectedly she grabs JACOB and pushes 
him onto the bed. In seconds they are all over each other, their 
clothes flying in all directions. They seem as happy as could be.







JACOB enters GRAND CENTRAL STATION. He checks out all the PEOPLE around 
him. Not a DEMON in sight. Hurrying to the TICKET WINDOW he gets in 
line. The TICKET SELLER looks up.


		Chicago. One way. For tomorrow.


		How many?


		One.


		That'll be $119.75.

JACOB pulls out MICHAEL's credit card. The SELLER rings it up. While he 
is waiting JACOB notices a POLICEMAN looking at him. The stare 
unsettles him. The SELLER hands JACOB his ticket. He takes it and 
hurries into the CROWD. Looking back he notices the POLICEMAN is 
following him.




JACOB enters the MEN'S ROOM. He hurries into one of the stalsls, drops 
his pants, and sits. He eyes the graffiti on the walls and then notices 
a wad of tissue stuffed into a hole between him and the next stall. It 
is moving. Suddenly the tissue falls to the floor. JACOB glances at the 
hole curiously and leans forward to examine it. He is shocked to see an 
eye staring back at him.


		Goddamn it!
			(he covers it with his
			hand. A pencil jabs his
			palm. He yells)
		Fucking pervert.

Two lips form around the hole. A tongue wags obscenely.


		Dream on!


			
		What?!

The mouth is gone. JACOB hears the stall door fly open and feet running 
from the room. He jumps up and grabs his pants. He dashes out of the 
MEN'S ROOM. He hears footsteps and chases after them.




JACOB bursts into the MAIN TERMINAL. He sees someone rushing toward the 
main doors and speeds after him. HOMELESS PEOPLE, huddling along the 
corridors, watch as they run past. Escaping to the street, the MAN 
disappears in the holiday throngs. JACOB, crazed, stands gasping for 
breath. His fists dig into his coat pocket. Suddenly he feels something 
and seems surprised when MICHAEL's CARD emerges in his hands.







JACOB runs up the stairs in a SOHO LOFT BUILDING. It is a dingy, 
industrial staircase, poorly lit. He reaches a door with MICHAEL's name 
painted on it in large black letters. He knocks loudly. There is no 
answer. He pounds on it. Another door opens on the floor above. A head 
sticks out.


		You lookin' for Mike?


			
		Where is he?


		Don't know. Hasn't picked his mail up
		in days. It's not like him.

JACOB has a frenzied look in his eyes. He searches around the staircase 
and sees a pile of lumber stacked in a corner. He grabs a two-by-four 
and lunges at the door.


		What the hell are you doing?

JACOB doesn't answer. He smashes wildly at the door until the lock 
flies open.




JACOB charges into the dark space groping for a light. He finds it. The 
LOFT is a disaster area. Nothing is standing. JACOB runs from room to 
room. In the back he discovers a large private chemistry lab. Glass 
vials and bottles are shattered on the floor.

JACOB rifles through the cabinets. A few bottles are intact but their 
labels mean nothing to him.

He reaches for one cabinet and notices a reddish liquid oozing out from 
the bottom. He opens it. MICHAEL's severed head stares him in the face. 
It is smiling.

A scream rings out as the MAN from upstairs sees what JACOB has seen. 
JACOB jumps back, trips, and falls over MICHAEL's headless body. It is 
lying sprawled across the floor.


		Oh my God!

JACOB stumbles to pull himself up. He is in a state of unrelieved 
panic. He runs past the MAN and spills out the doorr. He takes two and 
three stairs at a time, nearly flying to the street.




JACOB rushes into the icy air and runs wildly down the sidewalk as fast 
as his legs will move. With unexpected violence he charges into the 
side of a building. Over and over he hurls himself against it. He grabs 
for the bricks. His fingers insert themselves into the crevices. It is 
as though he is trying to merge with the wall.

Suddenly JACOB turns and dashes into the street. A taxi is speeding 
toward him, its lights the only sign of life and warmth in the dark 
night. JACOB steps into its path. It is hard to tell if he is trying to 
stop the cab or waiting to be hit. The taxi screeches to a halt. JACOB 
stares at it a moment and then steps to get in. The DRIVER tries to 
pull off but JACOB yanks at the door and drags himself inside.




Rain is beginning to fall. It streaks the windows.


			
		I'm going to Brooklyn.


		Sorry, Mac. Not with me you're not. I
		get lost in Brooklyn.


		I know the way.

JACOB reaches into his pants pocket, pulls out a twenty dollar bill, 
and hands it to the DRIVER. He takes it.


			
		Look, this is all the money I've got
		in the world. Take me home and it's
		yours.


		... Where's your home?

CUT TO THE TAXI heading down WEST BROADWAY, approaching the BROOKLYN 
BRIDGE, crossing the EAST RIVER, and driving through dark BROOKLYN 


JACOB's face passes in and out of dense shadows. Every time he is 
bathed in light his image seems to alter. Something in him is falling 
away.




JACOB gets out of the TAXI and approaches the LOBBY of SARAH'S 
APARTMENT BUILDING. JACOB is greeted by the DOORMAN.


		Dr. Singer. It's been a long time.


			
		Hello, Sam.


			(noticing JACOB's
			battered condition)
		Are you all right?


		I'm okay.


		Do you want some help? I can call
		upstairs.


		No, don't. But thanks.




JACOB stops in front of the APARTMENT door and reaches his hand 
underneath a section of the hallway carpet. It comes back with a key. 
He inserts it into the lock and gently opens the door. He calls out.


		Hello. It's me.




Some lights are on. The APARTMENT looks comfortable and cozy.


		Hello? Is anybody home? Jed? Eli?
		Daddy's here.

There is still no answer. JACOB is surprised. He peers into the dark 
LIVING ROOM and then walks to the KITCHEN. No one is around. A photo of 
JACOB, SARAH, AND THEIR BOYS is sitting on the counter. He picks it up 
and carries it with him through the apartment. He walks into his old 
BEDROOM and then into the BOYS' ROOM. The beds are still unmade. There 
is no one home. He sees his image in the BATHROOM mirror and turns away 
in disgust. He walks back to the LIVING ROOM. He is about to switch the 
lights on when he hears footsteps coming down the hall. He calls out.


		Sarah, is that you? I hope you don't
		mind. I needed to come home.

JACOB is startled to see JEZZIE enter the room. She does not seem he 
usual self. She appears larger, more imposing.


		Hello, Jake. I knew you'd come here
		in the end.

JACOB is nervous.


		What're you ... ? Where's Sarah?
		Where are the boys?


		Sit down, Jake.


		Where are they?


		Sit down.


		No! What's going on? Where's my
		family?


		It's over, Jake. It's all over.


		Where have they gone?


		Wake up. Stop playing with yourself.
		It's finished.

JEZZIE stares at JACOB with a frightening, powerful glare. The edge of 
her coat rustles and flutters as she moves toward him. It is an 
innocent sound at first, but after a moment it transforms into 
something else, an obsessive flapping noise, the sound of a wing.

JACOB's body feels the first waves of an inner tremor. His legs are 
shaking.


		What's going on?


		Your capacity for self-delusion is
		remarkable, Dr. Singer.

JEZZIE begins walking around the dark living room as she talks to him. 
Something about her walk is very unnatural. JACOB eyes her fearfully.

In the darkness JEZZIE's movements become increasingly strange and 
elusive. We see her pass before a shadow and disappear within it, only 
to reappear, seconds later, in a doorway on the other side of the room. 
JACOB spins around, confused. Suddenly JEZZIE is inches from his face, 
although it seems like there has been no time for her to get there. Her 
movements are totally impossible, defying all logic, all physical laws.


			
		What's wrong, Jake?
			
		Forget to take your antidote?


		Who are you? What are you doing to me?


		You have quite a mind, Jake. I loved
		your friends. That chemist - the
		Ladder. What an imagination you have!

JACOB freezes.


			
		And your vision of paradise ...
		fantastic! You're a real dreamer, you
		know that? Only it's time to wake up.

JEZZIE has disappeared in the darkness of the room. Only the sounds of 
flapping wings remain. They grow louder and more menacing, whooshing 
past him with no visible source.


			
		Your mind is crumbling, Jake. No more
		"army." No more conspiracies. You're
		dying, Dr. Singer. It's over.

JACOB, frightened, turns toward the door as if to hurry out. "JEZZIE" 
laughs.


			
		Where's to run, Jacob? Where's to go?

JACOB pauses a moment and then turns to confront the terror behind him.





		How many times have you asked me
		that? How many times?





			


JEZZIE appears from the shadows. Her coat collar obscures her and it 
seems for a moment that she has no face. Then, to JACOB's horror, she 
turns around. He is staring at the vibrating creature he has seen so 
often before. Glimpsed almost in abstraction it is a living terror, 
dark and undefinable. Its face is a black and impenetrable void in 
constant vibration. Its voice is an unspeakable demonic cry, the 
essence of fear and suffering. JACOB pulls away from it, overhwelmed by 
confusion. He is rooted in fear.

A sudden wind howls through the room, great gales blowing JACOB's hair 
straight up. It is like a hurricane pushing him into the wall. He can 
barely stand. He struggles to pull himself away. The flapping sound 
returns, charging at him from all directions. It is as if the darkness 
itself is swooping down, trying to envelop him.


			
		This isn't happening.

New terrible sounds arise, chain saws slashing through the air, knives, 
and sabers ripping through space with unrelenting anger. Guns fire and 
explode past his head. It is as though all the sounds of destruction 
are closing in on him. JACOB yells but his own voice is lost in the 
melee. Terrified, he looks heavenward, as if crying for help.

Suddenly, from the noise, a calm voice rises, speaking, as if from a 
distance. It is LOUIS. JACOB is shocked to hear him. He stands 
motionless.


		If you're frightened of dying you'll
		see devils tearing you apart. If
		you've made your peace then they're
		angels freeing you from the world.

The voice fades. JACOB just stands there, not sure what to do. And then 
the sounds return. Only now they are more terrifying than ever. 
Hideously loud, they become a cacophony of sounds, voices of parents, 
friends, lovers, the sounds of battle, fighting, and dying.

JACOB looks up and sees the creature in the center of the room. All the 
sounds seem to emenate from it. The more JACOB stares at it the louder 
they become. After a moment, JACOB takes a huge breath. We sense a 
great resolve forming inside him. Then, slowly, courageously, he begins 
moving toward it.

NEw and more terrifying noises assault JACOB, attempting to drive him 
back, but he will not be stopped. He continues walking toward the 
creature.

In the hallway a standing lamp slams sparking to the floor. It rolls 
back and forth like a living thing, with a maddening hypnotic 
regularity. Doors slam open and closed, unlatching, snapping, shutting, 
with deafening force. The room itself seems like an organic presence. 
It is alive, angry, and threatening.

The CREATURE sits in the midst of the insanity like the source of 
madness itself. It writhes, contorts and vibrates with unstoppable 
fury. JACOB, terrified, but unrelenting, continues to approach it.

AS THE CAMERA DRAWS CLOSER TO THE CREATURE'S HEAD the density of its 
featureless form overwhelms the screen. It is like staring into 
emptiness itself, the ultimate darkness.

With superhuman effort JACOB grabs hold of the creature. It is like 
grabbing hold of a live wire. His body begins shaking uncontrollably 
like a man being electrocuted. He is flying in all directions but does 
not let go. His fingers claw at the creature's head. JACOB struggles 
defiantly with the monster.

Suddenly a terrible voice emerges from within it.




JACOB does not respond. It cries out again.





Deep inside the darkness JACOB begins to make out the presence of a 
form, something writhing and tortured lurking before us. It looks 
briefly like an animal until we realize it is the image of a human 
face. It is covered by a dark suffocating film, like a mask.

JACOB digs into it with all his might and pulls it off.



DEAD SILENCE as JACOB SEES HIS OWN FACE staring back at him from 
beneath the mask. It is JACOB SINGER as we first saw him on the 
battlefield in Vietnam. Only now his image is pale and lifeless. It 
takes JACOB a moment to realize that he is dead. The recognition is one 
of terrible confusion and pain. JACOB stares at himself for a long time 
as a huge cry wells up inside him. It bursts forth with devastating 
sadness.

As that instant the whole of space seems to explode in a flash of 
catacylsmic power. Hundreds of images from JACOB's life flash before 
us, his birth, his childhood, his adulthood. The demons, the room, 
JEZZIE, LOUIS, MICHAEL, SARAH, all seem to assail us in a rush of 
blinding intensity.

We are flying over a landscape of memories, zooming across a constantly 
changing field of images. Some of the images move, some of the people 
in them speak. They are not particularly significant memories, in some 
ways they are quite banal, but something about them is infused with 
life and joy. Even the painful moments resonate with vital force. Some 
of the moments we recognize from the time we've spent with JACOB. Some 
we have not seen before. There is no order to them, no logic to why 
they have been recalled.

A newborn baby takes its first breath and screams. SARAH pulls clothes 
off a clothes line on a rainy day. JACOB's FATHER stands in the Florida 
surf as sea foam laps gently at his legs. PAUL, FRANK, and JACOB play 
cards on the edge of a rice paddy. GABE rides his bike into the path of 
an oncoming car. A child puts his ear next to a bowl of cereal, 
listening to it talk. A young girl standing in a doorway lifts up her 
blouse to show her new breasts. JACOB and SARAH slice a wedding cake 
that topples to the floor. JEZZIE looks at JACOB and asks "Love me a 
little?"

And then it is over. Total silence overwhelms the screen, a wonderful 
soothing calm. JACOB's eyes open and he is shocked to find himself 
sitting on the floor in SARAH's apartment. He is all alone. The first 
rays of early morning sunlight are filtering through the window. 
Something about the apartment seems transfigured, magical. JACOB sits 
motionless, stunned to be back there.

The faint sound of music can be heard coming from the hallway. It is 
warm and familiar, the tinkling of a music box. JACOB listens to it for 
a few moments and then something registers inside him. Curious, he gets 
up and approaches the corridor.


		Hello?

There is no response. Suddenly the music stops. JACOB freezes for a 
moment. He sees someone standing in the shadows at the other end.


			
		Who is it? Who's there?

Tentatively JACOB moves forward. As he draws closer he begins to see 
the outline of a child. Then, all of a sudden, he realizes who it is. 
His eyes well up as he stands there, the full impact of the moment 
registering inside him. It's his son, GABE. He is carrying the same 
musical lunch box we have seen before. The young boy smiles warmly at 
his father. It is the smile of an angel. JACOB swallows hard.


			
		Gabe? Gabe!

JACOB runs to his son. Unable to hold back the tears, he embraces him 
in a rush of love and emotion.


			
		Gabe. Oh God. I don't believe ...

They hug one another over and over. JACOB, overcome, sits down on the 
stiars. After a moment GABE puts his arm around his father's shoulder 
in a gesture of surprising maturity and compassion. We sense for an 
instant that their roles have reversed. GABE reaches for JACOB's hand 
and gently encourages him to stand up.

With a sweet tug GABE leads his father up the steps.

Sunlight streams down from the top of the stiars, hitting the first 
landing. GABE is bathed in its warm glow. As JACOB reaches the landing, 
he too is surrounded by the comforting light.

GABE hurries up the last set of stairs. JACOB turns to follow but is 
stunned by the brilliance of the light pouring in from above. 
Squinting, he cannot see his son. Then suddenly GABE steps back out of 
the light and takes his father's hand once more. His eyes sparkle with 
excitement.


		Come on Dad ... You know what we've
		got? A sandbox just like the
		Williston's, only it's bigger and the
		sand's all white. You won't believe
		it.

JACOB smiles at his son. GABE smiles at him. It is a moment of total 
euphoria. THE CAMERA HOLDS as they continue up the stairs.


			
		And my parakeet. Remember, the one
		grandma let out of the cage? He's
		okay. And he's talking now. He knows
		my name.

GABE's voice slowly trails off as he and his father disappear in the 
intenstity of the light. THE CAMERA HOLDS on the image. For a brief but 
stunning moment there appears to be a huge ethereal staircase 
shimmering before us. It rises up into infinite dimensions. Then the 
brilliance of its blinding light overwhelms the screen.

Suddenly the brightness condenses into a smaller light source. It holds 
for a second and then flashes off. An overhead surgical lamp remains 
stubbornly in view.




A DOCTOR leans his head in front of the lamp and removes his mask. His 
expression is somber. He shakes his head. His words are simple and 
final.


		He's gone.

CUT TO JACOB SINGER lying on an operating table in a large ARMY FIELD 
TENT in VIETNAM. The DOCTOR steps away. A NURSE rudely pulls a green 
sheet over his head. The DOCTOR turns to one of the aides and throws up 
his hands in defeat.

AN ORDERLY wheels JACOB's body past rows of other DOCTORS and NURSES 
fighting to save lives. A YOUNG VIETNAMESE BOY pulls back a screen door 
to let them out of the tent. It is a bright, fresh morning. The sun is 
rising.










by

Bruce Joel Rubin











CUT TO a huge ampitheatre-style LECTURE HALL at CITY COLLEGE. It 
is almost empty. No more than FORTY STUDENTS are scattered near 
the front of nearly three hundred seats. All are listening to 
PROFESSOR EMANUEL STERN who is nearing the end of his lecture.


		Thus at the core of today's discu-
		sion we find four fundamental doc-
		trines. First, that the world of
		matter and individual consciousness
		are both manifestations of one Divine
		Reality.

One of the STUDENTS seems about to fall asleep and keeps nodding 
his head.


		Even you, Mr. Palmer, are part of it,
		as amazing as that may seem.

MR. PALMER sits up quickly in his seat as other STUDENTS smile.


		Second, human beings are capable not
		only of kowledge about this Divine Re-
		ality by inference but can realize
		its existence by direct intuition,
		superior even to reason.

A door opens in the upper reaches of the lecture hall. JACOB 
enters and walks quietly down the stairs to within hearing range 
of the professor.


		Third, man possesses a double nature,
		an ego and an eternal self, what we
		call "spirit" or "soul."

JACOB takes a seat at one of the desks. There is a pencil lying 
on it which he fingers distractedly.


		Fourth, and most important, man's
		life on earth has only one end and
		purpose, to learn to let go of the
		separate ego and to identify with the
		Divine spark within.

MR. PALMER is nodding off again.


		Almost impossible to believe, isn't
		it Mr. Palmer, that somewhere in that
		unconscious head of yours lies the
		source of all consciousness?


		Yes, Sir. Very hard.


			
		Well now, having reached this
		apotheosis there seems little, if
		anything, left to say. So rather than
		try, you are dismissed.

The STUDENTS seem surprised but not unhappy with the sudden 
dismissal. They quickly gather their books and begin the long 
climb to the exits. Only JACOB remains seated.


		Hello Prof.

PROFESSOR STERN looks up and stares at KACOB for several seconds 
before recognizing him.


		My oh my. Doctor Singer. Isn't this a
		happy surprise?

JACOB comes down the aisle and clasps hands with his old 



			(looking at JACOB's uni-
			form)
		Are you in the service?


		The postal service. I'm a mailman.


			(surprised but non-
			judgemental)
		Ah. Neither snow nor sleet, nor dark
		of night ... I always admired that.


			
		It's good to see you.


		Likewise.




JACOB AND PROFESSOR STERN walk down the city streets that 
constitute the CAMPUS of CITY COLLEGE.


		And how is your wife? Sarah, no?


			(shrugging his shoul-
			ders)
		I haven't seen her in months.


			
		Ah!


		I'm with another woman now. We're
		both with the post office, Midtown,
		34th Street branch.


		Hmm. I don't suppose there are too
		many philosophers in the post office?


		Oh, you'd be surprised. They just don't
		have their doctorates, that's all.


			
		Last I heard you were offered a posi-
		tion in the West somewhere. Tuscon
		was it?


		Oh, that goes way back. They had a
		hiring freeze, one of those last min-
		ute things. Bad timing for me though.
		Middle of the war. The draft.
			(STERN nods his head.
			They walk a moment in
			silence)
		I'll tell you Prof, after Viet Nam
		... I didn't want to think anymore. I
		decided my brain was just too small
		an organ to comprehend this chaos.


			(looking at JACOB with
			affection)
		Jacob, if it was any other brain but
		yours, I might agree.
			
		Tell me, does your lady friend know
		what a brilliant thinker, what a sub-
		lime intellect she's living with?


			
		I doubt it's my mind that interests
		her. I tell you Prof, she's a fiery
		lady.


			(with a fatherly
			demeanor)
		Well, try not to get burned. You have
		a great mind, Jacob. Don't let anyone
		tempt you away from it.




JACOB and PROFESSOR STERN are sitting at a quiet table in a 
nearly empty coffee shop. They are both fixing cups of tea, not 
speaking. Suddenly JACOB looks at STERN.


		I've got a problem, Prof. More Augus-
		tine than Kierkegaard, if you know
		what I mean.
			(STERN looks at him
			questioningly)
		I need to know about ... demons.


			
		Demons, Jacob? Why demons? Are you
		writing ... ?


		No.
			
		I see them.


		See them?
			(he smiles uncomforta-
			bly)
		What do you mean? Physically?


			
		Yes.

STERN pauses. He looks at JACOB. The intensity of his gaze is 
unsettling and JACOB reaches for his tea. The cup rattles.


		I know very little about demons, Ja-
		cob, fleshy ones anyway. I know them
		as literary figures, biblical ones
		... Dante, Milton ... but Jacob,
			
		this is the 20th Century. We don't
		see demons now.


		I see them, Prof. Everywhere. They're
		invading my life.

A look of concern fills STERN's eyes.


			
		Christ, I know how it sounds.


		Have you considered a doctor? A psy-
		chiatrist?


		Yes.
			
		I don't want them. I'm not looking
		for analysis or drugs. It's too easy
		to dismiss as some kind of psychosis.
			(he pauses uncomforta-
			bly)
		It's more than that. I can feel it. I
		need you Prof. You're the only one I
		can talk to.


		I don't know what to say.


		I need your insight, your intuition.

STERN sips his tea slowly. He is thinking.


		Demons? I don't know what to tell
		you. It sounds like a spiritual mat-
		ter to me. The problem, Jacob, is
		that you have no context for it.
		You're a renegade Existentialist suf-
		fering demons a hundred years after
		Freud. How the hell am I supposed to
		make it fit?


		I'm afraid, Prof. Nothing makes
		sense.
			
		Please help me.


			
		Jacob, I don't believe in demons, not
		in the empirical sense. I don't be-
		lieve in devils fighting for our
		souls. I don't believe in enternal
		damnation. I don't believe in other-
		worldly creatures tormenting us. We
		don't need them. We do a good enough
		job on ourselves.


			
		But I see them.


		Look. I don't pretend to know what's
		going on inside your head. For all I
		know it's pathological and they
		should be pumping Valium into your
		veins by the quart. But if you're not
		willing to accept the help of sci-
		ence; and believe me, I admire you
		for that: then you'll have to do bat-
		tle on your own. What can I say? It's
		a lonely pilgrimage through our times
		even for the strongest souls. But to
		be pursued by ... demons no less ...
		There are no guides, Jacob.
			
		You wanna know what I'd do if I sud-
		denly started seeing demons? I'd hail
		the first taxi that came along, shoot
		over to Bellvue and beg them for
		shock treatment. I'm no saint.


		Hell, you think I am?


		I'venever understood you, you know
		that? You were by far the best pupil
		I've ever had, bar none. Intellectu-
		ally, you were the most original, the
		most imaginative. Who knows, maybe
		you've been "elected" to see demons.
		Maybe you're in touch with ... some-
		thing. Nothing would surprise me
		about you Jacob. Nothing.

JACOB gazes at his old friend and mentor, frustration blazing in 
his eyes. They are both surprised to see tears form and run down 
his cheek. JACOB reaches for a napkin and dries them quickly. 
STERN, uncomfortable in the face of emotion, turns away.







Suddenly a strange and terrifying spectacle unfolds before him. 
The DANCERS undergo a shocking transformation, a full three-
dimensional alteration of their physical forms. Clothes fuse to 
their bodies like new skin. Horns and tails emerge and grow like 
exotic genitalia, exciting a frenzy among the DANCERS. New 
appendages appear unfolding from their flesh. Dorsal fins 
protrude from their backs. Armored scales run in scallops down 
their legs. Tails entwine sensuously. Long tongues lick at the 
undersides of reptilian bellies. The metamorphosis holds a 
biological fascination. Bones and flesh mold into new forms of 
life, creatures of another world.

CUT TO JACOB's face as it registers terror and disbelief. He 
stares at the DANCERS. They are perverse, corrupt aspects of 
their normal selves. He is mesmerized by JEZZIE. Her flesh has 
grown hard and wrinkled and has the markings of a snake. Her 
tongue, long and curled, darts in and out of her mouth 
repeatedly. Her eyes are thin and domineering. They lock JACOB in 
their gaze. He wants to stop, to run, but JEZZIE won't release 
him.

JACOB grabs his eyes as though trying to pull the vision from 
them but it won't go away. The music throbs. His actions become 
spastic, almost delirious. His hysteria attracts the attention of 
the other DANCERS.

A circle forms around JACOB and JEZZIE as their frenzy transcends 
the boundaries of dance and erupts into an almost orgiastic 
display. JACOB is out of control. His fury becomes a kind of 
exorcism, a desperate attempt to free himself from his body and 
his mind.

CUT TO JACOB as his eyes pass beyond pain. The dark walls of the 
APARTMENT fade away.




Strange faces in infantry helmets appear in the darkness, 
outlined by a bright moon that is emerging from behind a large 
cloud. The faces are looking down and voices are speaking.


		He's burning up.


		Total delirium.


		He'll never make it.


		That's some gash. His guts keep
		spilling out.


		Push 'em back.


			
		Help me!

His eyes focus on the moon. Rings of light emanate from it 
filling the sky with their sparkling brilliance. The rings draw 
us forward with a quickening intensity that grows into 
exhilarating speed. The rush causes them to flash 
stroboscopically and produce a dazzling, almost sensual, surge of 
color. The display is spectacular and compelling. A voice can be 
heard in the distance.


		I think we're losing him.

Suddenly the flickering rings begin to define a tangible image, a 
kind of CELESTIAL STAIRCASE, rising up into infinite dimensions. 
As we speed toward it, it grows increasingly majestic. The image 
is so awesome and other-worldly that it is difficult to grasp 
what is being seen.

Music can be heard in the distance. It too is celestial in its 
beauty. Then, unexpectedly, it grows hard and insistent, like a 
heartbeat. Heavy breathing accompanies the sound. The image of 
the STAIRCASE shatters and disappears, replaced by intense 
flashes of red and blue light. The music grows louder and reaches 
a thundering crescendo. Then silence.









CUT TO APPLAUSE from a real television game show as JACOB 
switches channels on the LIVING ROOM T.V. He stops on an 
interview program, turns up the sound, and runs to the BATHROOM. 
The CAMERA stays on the television. JACOB can be heard urinating 
in the distance.

MAC HAYES, a young, virile, and smug REPORTER is speaking.


		The Reverend Norman Murphy, leader of
		one of the largest groups supporting
		the Armageddon Committee, told our
		cameras that we are no longer dealing
		in decades but years.

THE REVEREND fills the T.V. screen.


		The battleground is being readied.
		Our planet is the battlefield. Our
		souls are the prize. All the signs
		point to the inevitable confrontation
		between the forces of good and evil.
		People must choose sides. There is no
		draft evasions in this war. All are
		called. All must take up weapons. Are
		you prepared? That's the question we
		ask.

The toilet flushes and JACOB walks back into the LIVING ROOM and 
turns down the sound.


		Do you find people scoffing at you,
		Reverend? After all, there have been
		doomsayers for thousands of years and
		we're still here.


		People are less apt to laugh these
		days. The prophecies are too close
		for comfort. I mean, all you have to
		do is watch the news.


		There are some who claim that your
		pessimism is defeatist and what the
		world needs now is hope, a positive
		thrust.


		I think the time for hope has passed.
		The seeds have been planted. We shall
		reap what we've sown.
			
		Pessimists, no. I think we are
		percieved as the only realists
		around.


		Other movement leaders agree. In an
		interview ...

Suddenly the telephone rings. It startles JACOB. He jumps. It 
rings again. He reaches down, turns off the T.V., and picks up 
the phone. His eyes continue to stare at the blank screen as he 
talks.









THE BEDROOM is dark. JACOB and JEZZIE are making love. A half-
smoked joint is smouldering in an ashtray by the bed. JEZZIE is 
poised on top of JACOB and his eyes are focused on her face.

A hurricane lamp casts a warm glow over their bodies. Its 
flickering light plays games with JACOB's eyes and for a moment 
JEZZIE seems to disappear. JACOB reaches out for her breasts and 
his hands seem to vanish into the shadows dancing across her. 
With sudden, hallucinogenic impact, JACOB feels himself drawn 
into a starry universe opening from inside her.

THE CAMERA plunges through her image into a galxy of stars and 
rushes toward one that is twinkling brightly. Pulsations of its 
light whiten the screen. Out of the whiteness appears a momentary 
flash of the CELESTIAL STAIRCASE, accompanied by sounds of sexual 
climax.

The STAIRCASE sparkles for an instant and then it's gone. The 
sparkle becomes a glimmer in JEZZIE's eye as her face fills the 
screen. She looks especially lovely and radiant. Her image moves 
with the lamplight.

JACOB's face is ecstatic. He can barely talk and simply basks in 
JEZZIE's glow. Slowly, she leans forward and whispers in his ear.


		So tell me ... am I still an angel?


			
		With wings.
			
		You transport me, you know that? You
		carry me away.









JACOB is sitting in a comfortable chair in his living room. He is 
reading. The room is dark, lit only by a reading light. The walls 
are mostly in shadow. The light, however, falls on one section of 
the wall, a portion that has been lined in fake wood paneling.

JACOB's eyes suddenly lift off the page and roam over the wood 
grain on the wall. All of a sudden he notices something strange, 
an image in the grain. He stares at it. The more he stares the 
more precise its definition. The image of a DEMON appears in the 
wall.

JACOB sits up quickly and stares at the walll. It is impossible 
to get the DEMON's image out of the grain. It seems etched, even 
imbedded, in the paneling.

JACOB looks away and returns to his book. He is reading about 
archetypes and the primordial mind. But the book does not hold 
his attention. He is obsessed with the wall. Its molecules seem 
suddenly active, the wood grain suddenly animate. Layers begin to 
appear in the surface of the wall as the grain patterns slowly 
define a rocky, barren landscape.

The DEMON is growing solid. Cries and screams rise up in the 
distance. Flames and a red glow emanate from the space extending 
rapidly into the wall. The image of Hell erupts before him.

JACOB stands up. He can see bodies suffering beyond the wall, 
masses of PEOPLE wailing and enduring the torments of a fiery 
world. The DEMON's arm slowly extends from the plane of the wall 
and reaches into the room. He is huge, covered in flames and 
skulls, a living horror. He grabs hold of JACOB and pulls him 
toward the wall. JACOB tries to back away but he cannot. His face 
is white with fear. The DEMON draws JACOB toward the inferno.


			(yelling at the top of
			his lungs)


Suddenly JEZZIE appears, the light from the BEDROOM flooding the 
paneled wall. The DEMON vanishes instantly.


		Jake, are you all ... ?

She stops dead in her tracks.

CUT TO JACOB pressed up against the wall, defying gravity and 
logic, as though about to merge with the solid surface. His body 
holds there for a moment and then collapses to the floor. JEZZIE 
goes to him.


		Jake? Jake?

He doesn't answer. He looks at JEZZIE with a blank stare. His 
body begins shaking.




JACOB is lying on the bed, curled up in a fetal pose. JEZZIE is 
stroking his hair and trying to calm him.


		It's going to be all right, Jake.
		It's going to be all right. Don't be
		afraid. I've got you now.


		Hold me, Jezzie. Hold me.

JEZZIE wraps herself around his shivering body and warms him with 
her own. The image seems tender and comforting until we notice 
JEZZIE's tongue darting nervously in and out. It looks strangely 
like a snake's.







The RESIDENT injects the serum into JACOB's veins while two 
ORDERLIES hold him still. JACOB barely struggles. His eyes fixate 
on the EMERGENCY ROOM WALL. It is white and sterile. Within 
moments it begins to emit a reddish glow. JACOB watches with 
astonishment as the wall's two-dimensional surface separates into 
three-dimensional planes. The solid surface gives way to a DARK 
CHAMBER that was not there before.

Out of the transmuted space CREATURES begin to form. Bosch-like 
DEMONS with horns and tails, undeniably of another world. Slowly 
several of them emerge from the wall and approach JACOB. They 
look like parodies of doctors and nurses, wearing traditional 
hospital gowns. Without a word they wheel him through the space 
where the wall had been. JACOB tries to scream but no sound comes 
out.




The DARK CHAMBER is filled with mournful CREATURES being led by 
DEMONS through a series of CORRIDORS. No one fights or struggles. 
JACOB's stretcher is moved through the darkness. He tries to sit 
up but is forced back down. He is obviously drugged.

JACOB is wheeled into a tiny CHAMBER. A number of DEMONS are 
waiting for him. Chains and pulleys hang from the ceiling. They 
are lowered and attached with speed and efficiency to JACOB's 
arms and legs. The devices are manipulated smoothly and JACOB is 
lifted off the stretcher. The chains retract, stretching him 
spread-eagle in the air. He screams loudly.


		Oh God!

The DEMONS laugh. There is the sound of a huge door closing. 
JACOB is left in darkness. The darkness is hallucinogenic. Fires 
appear beyond the boundaries of the wall; images of Dante's 
Inferno, souls of the dead in endless torment. JACOB is but one 
of countless beings sharing a vastness of torment. His own 
screams for help are lost in the magnitude of voices crying.

Suddenly, out of the meancing shadows, a contingent of DEMONS 
emerges. They are carrying sharp surgical instruments. They 
surround JACOB, their eyes glistening as bright as their blades. 
JACOB is panting and sweating with fear. For an instant, one of 
the DEMONS looks like JEZZIE. JACOB calls out to her.


		Jezzie! Help me!

The DEMONS laugh as she changes form. They take great pleasure in 
his suffering. Their voices are strange and not human. Each 
utterance contains a multitude of contradictory tones, sincere 
and compassionate, taunting and mocking at the same time. The 
confusion of meanings is a torment of its own.









JACOB is lying on the floor of his BEDROOM doing exercises for 
his back. He has several days' growth of beard and does not look 
well. His mind is drifting and only the occasional pain in his 
back reminds him of what he is doing. JEZZIE can be heard 
vacuuming the carpet in the LIVING ROOM. Suddenly the door swings 
open. The wail of the vacuum cleaner causes JACOB to tense. His 
eyes drift down from the ceiling. JEZZIE vacuums around him and 
seems insensitive to his presence.

JEZZIE shoves the vacuum cleaner under the bed and hits 
something. JACOB tightens. She looks and is shocked to discover a 
can of gasoline and boxes of kitchen matches. It takes her a 
second to understand the implications of what she has found. 
JACOB is ready when she begins yelling.


		You're completely off your rocker,
		you know that? You'd think you fell
		on your head instead of your back.
		What are you planning to do, burn
		down the apartment along with your
		demons?

She begins to remove the gasoline can.


			
		Don't you touch it.
			

JEZZIE lets go of the can and grabs the vacuum. She moves it 
furiously across the carpet. Suddenly JACOB sees her tongue 
darting in and out, unconsciously. She looks strange, not human. 
JACOB freezes. He yells out.


		Who are you?

The sound of the vacuum cleaner drowns out his voice. He yells 
again. JEZZIE sees him and turns off the machine. His voice booms 
out.


			
		Who the hell are you?

JEZZIE ignores the question and turns the vacuum cleaner back on. 
JACOB rolls over and pulls out the plug.


		Why won't you answer me?


			
		Cause you know goddamn well who I am.


		I don't know you.


		You've lived with me for two years.


		That doesn't mean shit. Where do you
		come from, huh? And I don't mean
		Indiana.


		What do you want me to say? My
		mother's tummy?


		You know goddamn well what I mean.


		You're out of your fucking mind. I'm
		not gonna stand around here gettin'
		interrogated by you.


		Well leave then. Go to Hell.


			
		You son-of-a-bitch. Who do you think
		you are? I don't deserve this. Who
		takes care of you day and night? Who
		cleans the floor and washes your
		goddamn underwear? Well, I've had it.
		You flip out on your own, you
		ungrateful bastard. I'm done holding
		your hand. I don't want anything to
		do with you, you hear? Nothing!

She storms out of the room, kicking the vacuum cleaner as she 
goes. JACOB can see flashes of her through the open crack of the 
bedroom door. Occasional curses and epithets hurl through the 
opening along with a flood of tears.

JACOB catches glimpses of her as she grabs her coat from the hall 
closet and as she pulls her money out of the desk drawer. He can 
see the lamp as she shoves it to the floor and hears it shatter 
as she stomps on it with her foot. There is a blur as she heads 
to the front door and a deafening bang as she leaves.

JACOB's eyes drift up to the ceiling. They hardly blink. He 
stares at the plaster, chipped and cracked, above him. Suddenly 
the cracks begin to move. JACOB jumps up. A DEMON is 
materializing over his head. JACOB yells and grabs hold of the 
extension pole for the vacuum cleaner. With a furious cry he 
begins jamming it at the ceiling. Rather than blot out the 
evolving image his attack helps to define it. JACOB slams harder. 
Plaster and wood lath cover the floor. The DEMON is gone. Panting 
hard, JACOB reaches for matches and the gasoline can. He stops 
and stares at them with great intensity.







The ceiling begins to rumble. Cracks split wide open. Huge 
crevasses tear through the plaster. JACOB's world is crumbling. 
He stares in horror as DEMONIC FORMS attempt to surge through the 
rupture above him. Piercing eyes and sharp teeth glimmer in the 
darkness. Hooved feet and pointed claws clamor to break through.


			


Instantly MICHAEL appears standing over him. He is holding the 
vial with the antidote. He draws an eyedropper full of the fluid 
and holds it over JACOB's mouth.


		Take it!

JACOB fights him but MICHAEL forces the entire contents of the 
eyedropper down his throat. JACOB gags. He tries to spit it out, 
but can't.

Suddenly the ceiling erupts in violent clashes as whole chunks 
break off and collide with one another like continental plates. 
The collisions wreak havoc on the DEMONS, chopping and 
dismembering them. Body parts fall from the ceiling like a 
Devil's rain. Horrible screams echo from the other side.

Flashes of light and dark storm over JACOB's head, thundering 
like a war in the heavens. It is a scene of raw power and growing 
catastrophe. It builds in fury and rage until suddenly the 
ceiling explodes.

Matter atomizes instantly. Trillions of particles hurl 
chaotically in all directions. The walls shatter into a dazzling 
brightness. For a moment there is a sense of intense forward 
movement, a rush toward oblivion. And then, suddenly, it stops. 
There is absolute quiet and stillness.

JACOB's eyes stare into the formlessness sparkling around him. 
All space has become a shining void. Gradually faint pastel 
colors appear like colored molecules, dancing and spinning, 
redirecting space into new formations. They weave patterns of 
intricate complexity and stunning beauty.

As the colors grow brighter and more vivid their abstraction 
gives way to solid form. A GARDEN SCENE emerges. It is a GARDEN 
OF LIGHT, a vast, almost mythic, Rousseau paradise. It radiates 
an intense shimmering light.

JACOB's eyes are cpativated by the vision before him. A sudden 
movement catches his attention. He looks up and notices MICHAEL 
still standing beside him. MICHAEL, however, is rapidly changing 
form. It is a full, plastic, three-dimensional metamorphosis. His 
very flesh seems to expand and glow with its own inner light. His 
face shines and radiates an almost transcendental beauty.

JACOB is nearly blinded by MICHAEL's presence and must shield his 
eyes to look at him. MICHAEL smiles an extraordinary and joyous 
smile that radiates such intense luminosity that JACOB has to 
squint to see it.

Suddenly MICHAEL steps off the ground. He rises into the air and 
floats above JACOB. JACOB can barely breathe as he watches him. 
MICHAEL rises into a sky filled with orbs and blazing lights. The 
lights shine on JACOB's head. He effervesces and shimmers in 
their glow.

One of the orbs sends a burst of light exploding over JACOB. So 
intense is the light that JACOB grabs his eyes. As he opens them 
again he sees that the GARDEN is fading back into pure light. 
MICHAEL, too, is fading.

Another burst of light and the GARDEN is reabsorbed by the void. 
Only the brightness remains. It is many seconds before we realize 
that the HOTEL ROOM is coming together, reconstructed by the 
light. In moments it is fully formed. Sunlight is pouring through 
the window. MICHAEL is sleeping lightly in a chair. He hears 
JACOB stare and sits up.

JACOB is sitting on the bed. He does not seem to know where he 
is. His eyes are filled with awe. They move slowly around the 
room, taking everything in. He doesn't speak. MICHAEL gets up and 
sits beside him. He respects his silence.









JACOB enters the HOTEL ROOM. JEZZIE is already there watching the 
evening news. She is still in her postal uniform, lying on the 
bed. She taps the mattress, inviting JACOB to lie next to her. A 
WOMAN is crying to a REPORTER on the T.V.


		It's been four days. No word. It's
		not like him. He's never done any-
		thing like this before. It's like he
		just disappeared from the face of the
		earth.


		The Bureau of Missing Persons is con-
		founded by the continuing surge of
		reports ...

JACOB snaps off the T.V.


		What'd you do that for? It's an in-
		teresting story. All these people are
		still disappearing. Right off the
		street.
			
		Hey, what's wrong? Are you all right?


		I'm okay. I just don't want to lis-
		ten.


		You look upset.


			
		I'm not upset.


		Jake, what is it?


		I'm tired.


		You look terrible. What happened?
			(he turns away. She
			stares at him for a mo-
			ment, concerned)
		Jake ... is it the antidote?


		Goddamn it. Why do you say that?


		Look at yourself. You look like
		you've seen a ghost.


		Shit! Can't I just have a bad day?


		You can have anything you want.


		Then don't bug me.


		I'm not bugging you. Come and lie
		down. I'll give you a massage.
			(she taps the mattress
			again and JACOB joins
			her. She unbuttons his
			shirt)
		Where'd you go today?


			
		Mid-town mostly.


		Oh yeah? What was happenin' there?


			
		I picked up my ticket.
			
		I'm leaving in the morning, Jez.


			
		Oh?
			
		Where you going?


			
		West.


			
		Where's West? New Jersey?


		Don't be funny.


		I always liked the West, west of Il-
		linois anyway. But you gotta give me
		time to pack.


		Stop it, Jez. Don't do that.


		Do what? I haven't done a thing.


		Don't play games with me. There's
		nothing more to say.

There is a quiet rage building in JEZZIE's eyes as she continues 
to stroke JACOB's chest. He tries to relax and give himself over 
to the movement of her hand. Silently she leans over and begins 
licking his stomach. JACOB's eyes close. His stomach hardens. He 
reaches back and adjusts the pillow beneath his head. Slowly, 
JEZZIE works her way back up to his chest. Her tongue darts in 
and out suggestively. He eyes are burning with anger. Her mouth 
poises itself over his nipple. She toys with it for a few seconds 
and then chomps down hard. The bite draws blood.

JACOB screams. His eyes shoot open. For the flash of an instant 
he sees a DEMON hovering over him, a hideous horned creature 
licking his blood. JACOB flies off the bed as the creature hurls 
to the floor. JACOB is ready to pounce on it when he sees that it 
is JEZZIE lying at his feet. His head begins reeling. He backs 
away from the bed, not taking his eyes off JEZZIE for a second. 
He backs to the closet and grabs his coat.


		Jake. What are you doing? Look, I'm
		sorry, I didn't mean to bite. Let me
		get you a towel.

JACOB grabs his wallet and his glasses. He backs toward the door.


		Jake, don't. You can't leave. You're
		not seeing things clearly. The drug's
		wearing off.

She stands up and begins to approach him. JACOB lifts up a desk 
chair and holds it in front of him. Blood is running down his 
chest.


		Jake, don't leave me!

JACOB throws the chair at the floor, opens the door, and hurries 
into the HALLWAY. JEZZIE scurries around the chair and runs to 
the door. She yells after him, but he is already gone.









JACOB stoops in front of the APARTMENT door and reaches his hand 
underneath a section of the hallway carpet. It comes back with a 
key. He inserts it into the lock and gently opens the door.


			
		Hello. It's me.




The lights are on and the APARTMENT looks comfortable and cozy.


		Hello? Is anyone home? Jed? Elie? Dad-
		dy's here.

There is still no answer. JACOB is surprised. He walks into the 
LIVING ROOM and then the KITCHEN. No one is around. He walks into 
his old BEDROOM and then the BOYS' ROOM. He is surprised to hear 
footsteps coming down the hall. He turns around and calls out.


		Sarah, is that you? I hope you don't
		mind. I needed to come home.

JACOB is startled to see JEZZIE enter the room. She does not seem 
to be her usual self. She seems larger, more imposing.


		Hello, Jake. I knew you'd come here
		in the end.

JACOB is nervous.


		Where's Sarah? Where are the boys?


		Sit down, Jake.


		Where are they?


		Sit down!


		No! What's going on? Where's my
		family?


		It's over, Jake. It's all over.


		Where have they gone?


		Wake up! Stop playing with yourself.
		It's finished.

JEZZIE stares at JACOB with a frightening, powerful glare. Her 
lips snarl. Her tongue begins darting in and out, only now it is 
not a nervous habit but a conscious act. JACOB's body feels the 
first waves of an inner tremor. His legs are shaking.


		What's going on?

JEZZIE smiles at him. Her tongue wags and suddenly shoots from 
her mouth beyond human extension. JACOB recoils.


			
		This isn't happening.


		Your capacity for self-delusion is
		remarkable, Dr. Singer.

JEZZIE's head begins to tighten and squeeze, as though she is 
suffering from cramps. JACOB watches in horror as her skull gives 
birth to pointed horns.


		Oh God!


		What's wrong, Jake?
			
		Forget to take your antidote?


			
		Goddamn you!


			(smiling and then
			laughing)
		I loved your chemist, Jake. The
		height of fantasy. And your vision of
		paradise.
			(she laughs with a hu-
			miliating tone)
		A most romantic creation. You're
		quite a dreamer, Jake. Only it's time
		to wake up.

JACOB's eyes are locked on JEZZIE. His mouth is wide open. His 
body is shaking badly. He tries to back away from her but his 
legs barely move.


		There is nowhere to run, Jacob.
		You're home.

Suddenly the pictures on the wall crash to the floor. Plaster 
from the ceiling breaks off in huge chunks and slams to the 
carpet. Light bulbs and lamps explode. JACOB runs to the door. He 
pulls it open and screams. He is on the edge of a fiery abyss. 
JEZZIE laughs with a new intensity of demonic force. JACOB spins 
around.





		How many times have you asked me
		that? How many times?





			
		You know who I am.

Suddenly JEZZIE reaches for her tongue and pulls at it with all 
her might. It is an act of total, unrelieved grotesqueness. With 
each yank the horror grows as JEZZIE literally pulls herself 
inside out before JACOB's eyes.

The emerging creature is JEZZIE transfigured, a demonic presence 
beyond anything we have seen before. It is black and covered with 
a thick oozing slime. Its head, still recognizable as JEZZIE, is 
rodent-like, with piercing green eyes and terrible horns 
protruding from its brow. Its powerful arms have long spiked 
claws. Its feet are cloven hooves. Extending from its back is a 
long, thick, muscular tail that whips around the room with 
devastating force. It throws furniture crashing through the air.

A sudden cracking sound emerges from the DEMON's back. Dark forms 
penetrate the air. JACOB is breathless as huge wings unfold and 
spread out to the living room walls. The sound of their flapping 
is deafening. The walls shatter from their blows. As they crumble 
darkness appears on the other side. There are no other rooms. The 
VOID envelops them. The INFERNO emerges in all directions. The 
DEMON roars.


			
		Still love me, Jake?
			(it laughs and reaches
			out to him)


CUT TO JACOB's face. He has gone beyond fear. An intensity of 
rage is building in him that we have not witnessed before. His 
whole image seems transformed by it. He glows like a volcano 
before it erupts.

Suddenly he explodes. The full fury of the Ladder detonates 
inside him. He yells at the DEMON with all his might.




With a power and energy of devastating force he attacks the 
DEMON. JACOB is battling for his very soul and tears at the DEMON 
with an animalistic fury that takes it by surprise. Its giant 
wings flap furiously, lifting them both up off the floor. JACOB 
keeps fighting. He claws, bites, and rips at the wings, 
decimating their delicate fabric.

The DEMON, shocked, and trying to gain control, crashes up 
through the last fragments of the ceiling. JACOB does not let go. 
They burst into the fiery darkness. The room crumbles beneath 
them and disappears into the void.

The abyss opens beneath them. JACOB continues his attack. His 
legs are locked around the DEMON's waist. His hands dig into her 
eyes. The DEMON shrieks and surges downward with awesome 
velocity.

The DEMON charges into a rocky slope, smashing JACOB into its 
cliffs. JACOB claws at her wings, shredding as much of them as he 
can reach. The DEMON takes a huge chunk out of JACOB's arm. JACOB 
screams, grabs a rock, and shatters the DEMON's teeth. The DEMON 
falls to the ground. JACOB holds on.

All of a sudden the DEMON begins to shrink. JACOB is shocked and 
struggles to contain it. As it dwindles in size it reorders its 
shape. Within seconds a powerful INSECT is cupped in his hands. 
JACOB tries to crush it but it stings with such force that 
JACOB's entire body recoils. The stinging persists. JACOB hurls 
himself to the ground on top of his arms to hold the CREATURE 
down. So massive is the INSECT's attack. however, that JACOB's 
whole body heaves off the ground with each sting. Then the 
attacks subside. JACOB waits for the next blow.

Suddenly JACOB's body shoots straight up. His hands fly apart as 
a new life form erupts between them. He holds on tightly as flesh 
and blood mold and expand between his fingers. The new body takes 
rapid shape. It is a CHILD. JACOB grasps it with all his might as 
it completes its identity. He is horrified when he sees it. It is 
his son.


		Daddy!


		Oh God!


		You're hurting me!


			
		Stop!!!!


		Daddy. Let go.


		What do you want from me?




JACOB does not let up. In an instant his SON explodes into a 
gelatinous form, constantly undulating and changing shape. Within 
its translucent mass a new body is forming. JACOB stares at it 
with growing terror. It is himself. A terrible perplexity fills 
JACOB's eyes as he struggles to dig in and destroy his own image. 
He recoils as his own voice calls out to him.


		Who the Hell do you think you're
		fighting?

The words shock him and for the first time, he lets go.

Instantly the image disappears and the jelly-like mass dissolves 
into an oily liquid rapidly encircling his feet. JACOB looks down 
at the shallow pool spreading out beneath him. Its surface 
reflects a smoky, unearthly light.

JACOB gazes into the darkness. He is all alone. The quiet 
overwhelms him. The only sound is his own breath. He looks 
around, in all directions, but can see nothing. The CAMERA holds 
on him as he stands waiting for the next assault, but nothing 
comes. He is left only with his anticipation and with hinself. He 
stares at the terrible darkness.

A subtle phospheresence begins to glow in the liquid beneath 
JACOB's feet. He steps away from it, but it follows his movement. 
Suddenly, as if by spontaneous combustion, it bursts into flames. 
JACOB screams and tries to run but the flames move with him, 
lapping at his legs. He cannot escape them. As far and as fast as 
he runs the fire is with him. He yells and cries and screams as 
the fire eats at his lower limbs. He falls and jumps back up 
again, his hands charred. His eyes grow wild.


		Oh God, help me.

Instantly the flames roar and engulf him. It is total 
conflagration. JACOB's skin blisters and turns black. His flesh 
crackles. Writhing in pain he runs through the flames but can 
find no freedom from his suffering.

All at once JACOB stops running. He throws his hands up into the 
burning air and stands motionless, in absolute agony. It is a 
gesture of total submission and surrender to forces beyond 
himself. His flesh bubbles and chars but something is suddenly 
quiet inside him.

Through the flames JACOB's dark form can be seen as it slowly 
sits down, like a Buddhist monk, in the midst of the holocaust. 
He appears a figure of sudden nobility as the flames annihilate 
him.

Gradually the fire dies. JACOB's body, his flesh like a charred 
and brittle shell, sits motionless, beyond pain. An orange glow 
from the embers of his body slowly fades, leaving him in the 
final darkness.

The SCREEN stays dark for as long as possible. Then, slowly, an 
eerie light appears in an unfamiliar sky. It backlights JACOB, 
revealing his silhouette. The CAMERA dollies slowly toward him. 
It approaches the burned and unrecognizable remains of JACOB's 
face. It is the face of death. The CAMERA holds on the image.

Suddenly, with shocking impact, JACOB's eyes move. Within the 
crumbling shell of a body something is still alive, still 
conscious. The eyes survey the darkness and the first stirrings 
of a new light.

It is dawn. JACOB's dark remains are suffused by a preternatural 
glow. Slowly, huge orbs begin to appear on the horizon. JACOB's 
eyes open to the growing light as they seek out the familiar in 
the still dark lansdcape. Gradually the orbs begin their ascent 
like a thousand suns rising at the same time. JACOB's eyes widen 
as his new world stands revealed. He is sitting in a GARDEN OF 
LIGHT, the Rousseau paradise he has visited once before.

A sudden burst of light fills the sky directly overhead. The 
vegetation around him is instantly illuminated with its soft 
glow. Like a gentle breeze MICHAEL descends from the light and 
stands radiant before JACOB. He smiles and the air itself seems 
to brighten. MICHAEL quietly approaches JACOB's body.


		I am with you, Jacob.

JACOB stares at him through dark eyes with a mixture of awe and 
disbelief.


			(speaking with a gentle
			compassion)
		It's all right now. It's over. You've
		won. You're here.
			(JACOB stares at him
			questioningly. MICHAEL
			reaches out his hands)
		Trust me.

Softly MICHAEL places his hands on top of JACOB's head and begins 
to peel at the charred flesh. Layer by layer he strips it away. 
Then, with an unexpected gesture, he rips away a whole section 
with one quick pull. A BLAZE OF LIGHT bursts through the gaping 
hole in JACOB's head and beams into the air around them. It is an 
astounding sight.


		Come on. Don't make me do it all.
			
		Stand up.
			(JACOB's eyes are burst-
			ing with wonder)
		You can do it.

Slowly JACOB begins to stir. He moves feebly at first, like an 
old man. His black flesh creaks and cracks and through each 
sudden fissure another beam of light blasts out with laserlike 
intensity.


		Stop hobbling. Your flesh can't hold
		you anymore.

JACOB nods in response and takes a huge, gigantic breath. His 
lungs expand and suddenly all the old flesh bursts from his body 
as a radiant being of light breaks through beneath it. JACOB 
stands transfigured, filled with his own luminosity. His face is 
like a child's as he stares in amazement at his own hands, 
glowing with light.

MICHAEL directs JACOB's vision to the sunrise. It is majestic, 
almost Biblical in its grandeur. Great rays of light penetrate 
vast cloud formations and descend into the GARDEN. Slowly the 
clouds, as if orchestrated by some higher power, begin to part. A 
massive light complex emerges from behind them. JACOB watches, 
awestruck, as the CELESTIAL STAIRWAY stands revealed. It reaches 
down from unknown heights, radiating an infinite power and grace. 
It touches down far in the distance, hovering over many acres of 
teh GARDEN. JACOB's eyes are filled with its splendor. MICHAEL 
looks at him and nods.


		Go on, Jacob. It has come for you.

JACOB cannot speak. His eyes are fixed on the STAIRWAY dazzling 
him from afar. He can see ANGELIC FORMS moving up and down it. 
Suddenly, as if transported by light itself, he feels himself 
floating up into the air. He looks down upon EDEN sparkling below 
him. His mouth is wide open as he soars above it.

The light pulsating from the STAIRWAY is brilliant and thrilling. 
JACOB's own inner light intensifies as he approaches it. The 
STAIRWAY grows increasingly wondrous as we draw nearer. It pulls 
JACOB toward it.

STREAMS OF ANGELS enter the STAIRWAY like a fast flowing river. 
It carries them instantly within its current up beyond the 
visible reaches of the glittering sky. Billowing clouds glow in a 
parade of colors and the starry heavens seem to part as the 
STAIRWAY reaches beyond all known dimensions.

JACOB stares at the light that is about to absorb him. It is a 
moment of total euphoria. He surges into the stream as the 
brilliant light of the STAIRWAY overwhelms the screen.

Slowly the brightness of the screen condenses into a smaller 
light source. An overhead surgical lamp remains stubbornly in 
view.




A DOCTOR leans his head in front of the lamp and removes his 
mask. His expression is somber. He shakes his head. His words are 
simple and final.


		He's gone.

CUT TO JACOB SINGER lying on an operating table in a large ARMY 
FIELD TENT in VIET NAM. The DOCTOR steps away. A NURSE rudely 
pulls a green sheet up over his head. The DOCTOR turns to one of 
the aides and throws up his hands in defeat.

TWO ORDERLIES wheel JACOB's body past rows of other DOCTORS and 
NURSES fighting to save lives. A YOUNG VIETNAMESE BOY pulls back 
a screen door to let them out of the tent. It is a bright, fresh 
morning. The sun is rising.







