				Bamboozled

				by

				Spike Lee






We HEAR the voice of MALCOLM X.


			You've been hoodwinked.  You've
			been had.  You've been took.
			You've been led astray, run amok.
			You've been bamboozled.

His followers ROAR.









WE HEAR the VOICE of PIERRE DELACROIX.


			Satire.  1a.  A literary work in
			which human vice or folly is
			ridiculed or attacked scornfully.
			B.  The branch of literature that
			composes such work.  2.  Irony,
			derision or caustic wit used to
			attack or expose folly, vice or
			stupidity.



WE are in the living quarters of PIERRE DELACROIX.  The
windows overlook the Brooklyn Promenade and the majestic
lower Manhattan skyline.


			Bonjour, my name is Pierre Delacroix.
			I'm a television writer, also a
			showrunner, a creative person.

We see a tall figure move in and around the space.


			I'm one of those people responsible
			for what you view on your idiot box.



Monogrammed cuff sleeve - the initials P.D.





			The problem is not enough of you
			have been watching.



Monogrammed shirt pocket - the initials P.D.


			With the onslaught of the internet,
			video and interactive games, nine
			hundred channels to choose from and
			whatnot, our valued audience has
			dramatically eroded.



Razor cuts a path through a white foam on a black face.


			To put it in much more simple
			terms...

Delacroix YELLS.


			Like rats fleeing a sinking ship.



The handsome face of Pierre Delacroix.


			People tuning out by the millions.

Delacroix turns to the CAMERA and addresses US.


			Which is not good.



The tenement building is boarded up, condemned, bombed out,
but a home, a shelter nonetheless.



People to our surprise live in here.  It is a commune.  The
homeless, people who have been left out, forgot about,
written off, and don't matter.  The fringes of society.

CHEEBA, a skinny Puerto Rican male, tries to wake a
slumbering body under a mass of old newspapers.





			Yo, let's get to it.  You don't
			dance, we don't eat.  Simple as that.

The mass begins to move.


			That's right.  We slow.  We blow.
			We snooze.  We lose.



MANRAY, a young African-American dread-lock male, and Cheeba
are getting set up in front of the entrance to the
CONTINENTAL NETWORK SYSTEM building.  CNS is one of the
fledgling, upstart new networks, trying to battle with ABC,
NBC, CBS, FOX, WB, and UPN.



Entrance.  Cheeba is putting the portable floor down on the
sidewalk.  Manray sits on the curb, taking the sneakers off
and putting on his tap shoes; bottle caps are on the soles
of the shoes instead of real taps.


			Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
			I know everybody is in a hurry to
			work, ready to begin another day in
			this rat race.  But don't sleep us.
			I'm Cheeba and I introduce to you
			the world renown MANRAY, the man
			with the educated feet.

Manray takes a small bow.  A few, not many, people have
stopped to look.


			As we continue our world wind tour,
			we would like to give you a little
			somethin', somethin' before you go
			off to make that money.  I give you
			Manray.



Manray, who starts to do his thing, and when he starts doing
his thing attention must be paid.



Crowd, as Manray gets busy, people gather to watch.






Delacroix, he is about to walk into the CNS building but
stops to check out Manray.



Manray, he pounds out some intricate steps and freezes at
the end of the move.



Crowd, who applaud as Cheeba unfolds a brown shopping bag
and holds it out in front of them.


			Thank you very much but please
			don't go without giving us some
			cheddar, cheese, money.  We prefer
			two's than fews.

People are digging into their pockets.


			I would like to add that both of us
			are homeless.  Not that it means
			anything.

A WOMAN is about to dump some change in the brown paper bag.


			I said homeless.  Ladies and
			gentlemen.  Senorita, do you know
			what that means?

Cheeba looks at her and she quickly pulls out a 5-spot from
her purse and drops it into the bag.


			Muchos gracias.

Cheeba works his way over to Delacroix.


			Good morning, Cheeba.


			Good morning to you, Mr. Delapot.


			De-la-croix.


			Y'know what I mean.  Got a gig yet
			for Manray and I yet?





			Not yet.

Delacroix hands Cheeba a ten dollar bill.


			Gracias.

Delacroix moves towards the revolving doors of CNS.


			Manray, Sloan says you're too
			talented to be dancing on the street.


			Well do something about it.



Delacroix is the lone person of color in the elevator.



Delacroix gets off the elevator, takes out his ID, slips it
through the scanner and enters the reception area of CNS.


			Good morning, Marie.


			It's not gonna be a good morning
			for you if you don't get into
			Dunwitty's staff meeting.


			What staff meeting?


			The staff meeting that started 30
			minutes ago.



Delacroix walks, or better yet, slithers into the staff
meeting that is already in progress.  TWENTY WRITERS sit
around an oval table, all are Caucasian except Delacroix,
again he's the lone person of color, the "fly in the
buttermilk."

DUNWITTY, Senior V.P. of the Entertainment Division of CNS
looks at Delacroix and waits for him to sit down before he
continues.





			Monsieur Delacroix, this very
			important meeting commenced...

Dunwitty looks at his Rolex Chronograph - Daytona Model.


			...exactly thirty-two minutes ago.


			I'm sorry I'm late.


			Do you know how much information
			can be dispensed in one minute alone?


			I didn't find out about this very
			important staff meeting until...

Delacroix looks at his Jaeger-LeCoultre.


			Four minutes ago.


			So are you telling me everyone knew
			about this get-together except you?


			I wasn't told about this until
			Marie informed me as soon as I got
			off the elevator.

All eyes are on Delacroix and he feels it.


			People, you can attempt to pull a
			Rodman like our friend Delacroix,
			but I guarantee you'll be sent
			packing just like him.

Dunwitty via remote turns off the lights and turns on an
overhead projector.


			These are the standings.  Read 'em
			and weep.  As you can plainly see
			the Continental Network System is
			languishing.



Ratings charts.





			Look at 'em people.  We are BOOTY,
			CA CA.  We are DOO-DOO.  Doo-doo on
			a stick, if you will.



Dunwitty.


			I do not like to be the laughing
			stock of the broadcast industry.  I
			have pride and people, you better
			start getting some too.  These
			numbers have to go up.

Dunwitty turns on the lights.  JOAN, one of the writers,
raises her hand.


			Question?


			So what do you want us to do?


			What I want everyone to do is write
			some material that is FUNNY.  The
			junk you've been writing is about
			as funny as a dead baby.  It's not
			funny, it's not new.  It's not sexy.
			It, it, it...



Fish.


			Sucks.



Conference room.


			SUCKS.  Thank you, Fish.  This
			meeting is over but I want everyone
			to seriously think about what I
			said and how you can deliver.

People scurry out.


			Monsieur Delacroix, in my office now.






The writers, beat down, come out of the conference room and
move past SLOAN HOPKINS, a highly attractive African-
American "sistuh."

Delacroix sees Sloan and holds her arm as they walk.  He
talks under his breath.


			How was it?


			Why didn't you tell me about this
			staff meeting?


			Nobody told me anything.


			What good are you if you don't tell
			me stuff like this?


			It wasn't my fault.  If I would
			have known, I would have known.



Delacroix enters his corner office, which has huge action
photos of ALI, JORDAN, GRIFFEY, TYSON, AARON and JABBAR on
his walls, it is also decorated with African art throughout.



Office.  Dunwitty looks at the floor-to-ceiling windows
overlooking mid-town Manhattan.


			Do you know what C.P. Time is?


			C.P. Time is Colored People's Time.
			The stereotypical belief that
			Negroes are always late.  That
			Negroes have no sense of time -
			time except when it comes to music
			or dance.

They both laugh.


			Let's sit down over there.




Dunwitty and Delacroix sit on the sofa.


			I'm sorry about my blowup but I
			have to have a whipping boy every
			meeting.


			I understand.  But again, in all
			honesty I was not informed.


			Forget it.  I believe you're my
			most creative person I've got on
			staff.  You're hip.  You know
			what's happening.  I got some corny
			white boys and girls writing for me.

Delacroix doesn't join him in his laughter because he
doesn't know how to take that comment or where Dunwitty is
headed with it.


			I understand Black culture.  I grew
			up around black people all my life.
			If the truth be told I probably
			know "niggers" better than you,
			Monsieur Delacroix.  Please don't
			get offended by my use of the
			quote-unquote N word.  I got a
			black wife and three bi-racial
			children, so I feel I have a right
			to use that word.  I don't give a
			damn what Spike says, Tarantino is
			right.  Nigger is just a word.  If
			Dirty Ole Bastard can use it every
			other word so can I.


			I would prefer you not use that
			word in my presence.




Delacroix pounces on top of Dunwitty like a cat on a mouse
and gives him a quick BROOKLYN BEAT DOWN.


			Say it again.  C'mon, say it again.



Dunwitty.  He's a bloody pulp.






Delacroix.

He straightens his tie.


			Who's a nigger now?

POW.  This is a fantasy in Delacroix's mind.  We go BACK TO
REALITY.  Everything's how we left it.


			The material you've been creating
			is too white bread.  White people
			with black faces.  The Huxtable's,
			Cosby, revolutionary.  But that's
			dead.  We can't go down that road
			again.


			I don't agree.  The Negro middle
			class does exist, and it's rich
			material for a dramatic series or
			sitcom.


			I'm telling you it's not.

He goes to his desk, picks up Delacroix's scripts and starts
throwing them one by one against the window.


			The middle class black family moves
			into a white suburban enclave.  The
			middle class black family moves
			into a small Southern town that is
			run by the KKK.  The middle class
			single black father raises his
			teenage daughter.  The middle class
			single black father raises his
			teenage daughter.  The middle class
			single black mother raises her
			teenage son.  And so on and so
			forth.  It's too clean, too
			antiseptic...


			...to white?  I still feel all of
			my scripts would make good shows.





			Delacroix, wake up, brother man.
			The reason why they didn't get
			picked up was because nobody - and
			I mean NOBODY - niggers and crackers
			alike wants to see that junk.


			I've never been given a fair shot.


			You got your head stuck up your ass
			with your Harvard education and
			your pretentious ways.  Brother
			man, I'm blacker than you.  I'm
			keepin' it real and you're frontin',
			trying to be white.


			I'm an oreo, a sell out?  Because I
			don't aspire to do HOMEBOYS FROM

			DESMOND PFEIFFER, A PJ's or some as
			you might put it, some "nigger"
			show?  I'm a Tom?  I'm whiter than
			white and you're blacker than black?
			Is that what you think?


			That's exactly what I think.  I
			want you to create something that
			people want to see.  Let's be
			honest, the majority of the people
			in the country are deaf, dumb and
			blind and I'm including 35 million
			African-Americans.  You know and I
			know "niggers" set the trend, set
			the styles.  This is a golden
			opportunity now.  These idiots have
			to be led to the water.


			I'm not sure if I can deliver what
			you want.


			You will or you'll be back at BET
			so quick you'll never know what hit
			you.  I need a mid-season
			replacement and pronto.  It will be
			on the fast track.





			What is it you want from me?  Some
			plantation follies?  Some sitcom
			that takes place on a watermelon
			patch?  Some show that follows four
			nigger generations of junkies and
			crackheads?  You want me to go back
			to the ante bellum days?


			Yes!  Yes!  Yes!  I want a show
			that will make headlines, that will
			have millions and millions of
			households tuned in, glued to their
			televisions every week.  I want
			advertisers dying to buy on this
			show.  I'm gonna squeeze this show
			out of you if it kills you.



WE SEE a street lamp, and coming out of it are some wires.
WE FOLLOW the wires into a tenement building.

The residents have tapped into a street light courtesy of
CON EDISON for power.



Cheeba stands in front of the makeshift kitchen, which
includes a hot plate, and prepares a gourmet meal of a tasty
Spanish dish.  The clean apartment is furnished with stuff
people have thrown out that they picked up on the street.


			I'm starvin' like Marvin.


			My world famous, famous world Arroz
			con pollo will be ready very soon.


			Hurry up, I wanna watch HBO.


			Did we get our bill yet?

They both laugh.


			I guess that will come with the
			rent, gas, and Con Ed bills, too.





			Ahh, the luxuries of life.


			Yo, check it.  This is good and all
			that but one day soon I want to
			have much Benjamins so I can have a
			nice crib and pay all my bills.
			You hear me.


			Chill, I'm the brains behind this
			outfit.


			And I'm the feet.


			Yo, you gotta show some patience.
			You want me to snap my fingers and
			presto chango - you're an overnight
			sensation.  Son, there is no such
			thing.


			I'm tired of waiting.



He sits in front of a large flat-screen television, watching
the Yankee game and eating his takeout Chinese food.  On top
of the monitor, he has attached a sign that reads "FEED THE




She sits in front of her television, hand on remote, flipping
channels and eating takeout Chinese food.



They both are devouring the chicken with rice, as they watch
bootleg HBO.



Delacroix sits at his desk, a ream of white bond paper in
front of him, a box of number-two pencils and an electric
pencil sharpener.


			I was never good at performing
			under the gun.






Pencil after pencil gets inserted and sharpened to a knife
like point.


			Well, this wasn't a gun, it was a
			bazooka and it was pressed dead
			blank right against my dome.



Delacroix, staring at the blank ream of paper.  It is very
intimidating.



Monitor.  Bernie Williams is at the plate for the New York
Yankees.



Sign atop monitor.  Again, it reads "FEED THE IDIOT BOX."



She too is blank.  A screen saver bobs and weaves on her
laptop.



Delacroix grabs a pencil and put it to paper.



Paper.  He doodles.



Manray screws out the bare light bulb which is the sole
source of illumination and lays down onto his mattress on
the floor.



Sloan closes her laptop and jumps into her bed.



Delacroix is already in the bed, the lights are out.



Delacroix, who's wide awake.






Manray and Cheeba are both sound asleep.



Cheeba, he has a sheet pulled over his head.



Manray, who's sawing logs, snoring loudly.


yelling.  Police sirens, cars and trucks.



Apartment.  Cheeba and Manray run to the window and look out.



The street is filled with police cars, vans and wagons.
Helicopters hover overhead with their searchlights on the
building.


			Oh snap!  It's a raid!

Cheeba and Manray jump into their cloths.



Cops in riot gear storm into the tenement.  A police chief
barks over a speaker system.


			Please evacuate this building.  All
			of you are illegal residents of
			this condemned building.  Please
			leave immediately, by order of the
			Mayor of New York City, Rudolph
			Giuliani.



Stairwell.  It's bedlam.  The hundreds of SQUATTERS who have
been living here all making a bad dash trying to flee the
NYPD as they "bumrush the show."



Floor.  Cheeba and Manray try to push against the crowd.





			Not this way.  Out through the fire
			escape.

The COPS are running up the staircase.  People try to escape
with as many of their belongings that they can hold.


			My tap shoes.






He jumps out of bed.




			Oh my God!!!

She too jumps out of bed.



It is a MADHOUSE, BEDLAM.  It's PANDEMONIUM.  The Squatters
are being seized as soon as they come out of the tenement.
Searchlights go back and forth, as the cops make their
arrests and fill the "Paddy" wagons.



Street.  The Squatters are like ROACHES in a dark kitchen at
night, scrambling as the lights turn on.  Do you remember
those old "RAID" commercials.  "Let's scram, IT'S RAID!!!"



The phone rings.





Delacroix picks it up.  They yell in unison.


			Manray!


			Manray!





			How did you know?


			It hit me like a ton of bricks.


			How can this be?  You and me at the
			same time, the exact same thought.
			It's scary.


			The idea was out there in the
			universe.  Now what?



Cheeba and Manray run down the fire escape and just elude a
group of cops.



Fence.  They lay still as the Fuzz run past them.


			We ran out without my shoes and the
			floor.  I gotta get my stuff.  What
			about our savings?


			Are you crazy?  The joint is
			crawling with cops now.  You wanna
			go to Rikers?  Go to the hoosegow?

Manray looks at his friend, he knows he is right, at least
this time.



Delacroix and Sloan sip hot coffee as they stand in front of
their office building.


			Manray was under our nose the whole
			time.


			Do you know how you will use him?


			Not yet, but this thing will never
			get made.





			You lost me.


			Dunwitty wants a Coon show.  And
			that's what I'm going to give him,
			it's going to be so racist, so
			negative, he won't have the balls
			to put it on the air.  Hence I'll
			prove my point.


			What point is that?


			The point being that him, the
			networks don't want Black people on
			television unless they are buffoons.


			Sounds risky to me.


			You getting cold feet?


			I'm in till the end.


			Good.  I'm going to need your
			support.


			Can't you just quit?  Walk away?


			And lose out on my money?  The only
			way I get paid is if I get fired.
			And that's what I intend to do.



It is pouring rain and Delacroix and Sloan huddle under an
umbrella.


			Everything was going according to
			plan.  I was working on the outline.
			Dunwitty was off my back for now.



Delacroix.





			But there was a catch.  A big catch.



Sloan.


			Manray and Cheeba were nowhere to
			be found.



Manray and Cheeba are soaking wet.  They stand together in a
doorway, trying to stay out of the elements.



Street.  They run in the downpour.


			It was like they had disappeared
			off the face of the earth.



Cheeba.


			I had no contact numbers, no
			address, no beeper.



Manray.


			No nuthin', no clues...



It is a sunny and pleasant morning.  Again, Sloan and
Delacroix hold vigil.


			Maybe something happened to them.
			Maybe they're lying in an alley
			bleed to death.


			Manray better not be bleeding to
			death.  I need him.  After we're
			done he can do whatever he wants to
			do, until then, he's ours.





			You're beginning to sound like
			Dunwitty.



Manray and Cheeba stand across the street from their former
residence.  All of the doors and windows have been boarded
up and two cops stand watch.  They both look defeated, dirty
and hungry.



Sloan gets off the elevator and sees a skirmish.  TWO
SECURITY GUARDS are trying to escort Manray and Cheeba out
of the building.


			His name is Delapoint.


			WE have no one by that name.


			Delapot.  Dela-something.


			De La Soul ain't here either.
			Let's go.  Out.  Off the premises.

Manray turns around and sees Sloan.


			Sloan!  She knows us.

The security guard stops.


			It's alright.  They are associates
			of Mr. Delacroix.


			Sorry, Ms. Hopkins.  They both
			walked in off the street without an
			appointment.


			Do you need an escort?


			That won't be needed.






He sits in front of his TV and watches a tape of the old
"Amos 'n' Andy" show.  Sloan leads Manray and Cheeba in.


			Eureka!  Where've you been?

He hugs them both.


			Sloan and I have been looking all
			over for you.


			You'd take no offense if we called
			you DeLa for short?


			No offense.


			Manray needs a job.

Delacroix smiles at Sloan.


			We got evicted from our home.
			We've both been on the streets for
			the last week.


			We was coming to see you.


			If it's not too much trouble could
			you order us some food?


			We're starving.


			I apologize.  What would you like
			to eat?  Anything you want.





A feast of McDonald's is taking place.  Cheeba and Manray
are stuffing Big Macs, Fish Deluxes and large french fries
into their mouths.  They were famished.





			I have this concept for a TV pilot.
			There's no guarantee it will get
			made but regardless, you'll still
			make some money.


			How much?


			First things first.  I have to know
			if Manray is up for this.


			What do I have to do?


			Some tap dancing, some singing.


			Where do I sign?


			What kind of show is this gonna be?


			Different.


			How different?


			Trust me.  Of course I still have
			to pitch it to my boss, but we'll
			have an answer one way or the other.


			DeLa, I'm aboard.  As long as I get
			to hoof and get paid too!!!


			That's right.  Money turns the wheel.


			What about in the mean time?  Not
			the in between time?


			You'll both get an advance and you
			can stay with me.


			Bet.





			I would like to change your name.


			To what?


			You're now Mantan.


			Mantan?  I don't even care as long
			as I'm dancing.  Which reminds me,
			I need some new kicks.



Manray holds two Capezio shopping bags of shoes as he walks
next to Sloan.


			I never had a really real pair
			before.


			You've never had any formal
			training, either?


			Not a class, not a thing, just
			picked stuff up by myself.


			I wish I had your natural talent.
			God only makes that visit once in a
			while.


			You sing and dance?


			A little.  I just graduated from
			NYU film school.  Cinema studies.


			So what's up with you and DeLa?


			What do you mean?


			Are you and him kicking it?
			Knocking boots.
			Y'knowwhatI'mtalkin'bout.





			No, we're not knocking boots.  I
			got this internship while I still
			was at NYU, DeLa was impressed with
			my get up and go and hired me to be
			his assistant.


			I'm sure that was the only thing he
			was impressed with.  You look
			beautiful like that.


			If that was suppose to be a
			compliment, I thank you.


			You're welcome.  You shouldn't give
			up on performing.


			Why do you say that?  You've never
			seen me.


			I think that would probably make
			you the happiest.  When I'm hoofing,
			I mean really doing my thing,
			hitting it, nothing compares to
			that feeling in the world.


			I envy you.  That's the way I want
			to feel about my work.



Sloan walks from the subway to her block.



Street.  A huge black Chevy Suburban follows her, all the
windows are tinted jet black, you cannot see it all into it.
She notices the vehicle and starts to walk faster.



Corner.  As Sloan tries to cross at the corner, the Suburban
pulls up in front of her, blocking her path.



Suburban.  A tall black man jumps out of the Chevy.  This is






			Li'l Sister.



Corner.


			You idiot.  You almost gave me a
			massive coronary.


			I didn't mean to scare you like that.


			Well you did.


			Give me some?


			I'm not huggin' you in the middle
			of the street.  You must be crazy,
			Julius.


			Whoa, hold up li'l sis'.  I done
			told you 'bout that.  Julius ain't
			my name, you better recognize
			Hopkins was our slave name.  My
			true name is...


			I'm not callin you Big Black Africa.
			Mommy and Daddy named you Julius.


			BIG BLACK is the first name and
			AFRICA is the last.

He hugs her, she becomes lost in his huge arms and laughs.



Big Black is rummaging through his sister's refrigerator.


			Damn, Sis, you don't keep no food
			up in here in dis' piece.


			I order out mostly.  So what do I
			owe this visit to?





			My group we need some exposure.
			Was wondering if you could hook a
			brother up?


			Hook you up?  The Mau-Mau's?  You
			must be smoking.  Why in the world
			would I want to hook up a bunch of
			red, black and green flag-waving
			pseudo revolutionairies?


			So now I see where you're coming
			from.  Just because we ain't
			rapping about Gucci, Timberland,
			Rolex, Benz, Cristal, ho's and
			bitches, we're pseudo.


			Who are you revolting against?


			We're revolting against the powers
			that be, that been enslaving the
			minds and hearts of all people of
			color.  And we won't stop rapping
			till we bring about the overthrow
			of the government of the U.S. of A.


			Please.


			If you were really down you would
			get us together with that boss of
			yours.  What's his name again?


			Delacroix.


			Yeah, him.


			What makes you think he would write
			a show about the Mau-Mau's.


			C'mon, why not?  The Monkees had a
			show.  Look at all that other junk
			that's on TV.  We got underground
			cult following.





			You don't have the demographics.


			So are you telling me that you
			wouldn't even introduce me to
			Delacroix or set up a meeting?  I'm
			talking 'bout me, your only brother,
			ya own flesh and blood, hook a
			brother up, youknowwhatI'msayin'.


			That'swhatI'msayin'.  I'm not
			blowin' my young career, brother or
			no brother, for you or anybody else.


			There is a name, a term for your
			kind, the likes of you.  Back in
			slavery days, you would be
			classified as a house nigga.


			If you think I'm a house nigga then
			that's your prerogative.  You got
			your ways to affect change, I have
			mine.  And I would appreciate it
			very much if you took ya field
			nigga ass out of my house.


			My own sister throwin' me out.  I
			hope to seeya later when you get ya
			mind right.  Don't bother letting
			me out.


			That's mighty black of you.

Big Black slams the door.



One by one, the team enters the office and sits down on the
sofa.


			Delacroix, I'm glad you got your
			mind right.


			It's right and tight.  Good morning,
			let me introduce you to everybody.
			You know my assistant, Sloan.





			Hello.


			This is Cheeba.


			Nice to meet you.


			And this is Manray.


			How do you do?


			Good.  I like the names.  Very
			theatrical.


			We're all happy to be here and I'm
			going to paint a picture for you.


			I'm wid it.


			I've done a lot of soul searching
			and once again you are right.  In
			my previous work it's been all
			surface, superficial.  I have never
			really dug deep.  Not anymore.  As
			Mark Twain fully understood satire
			is the way.  Race has always been a
			hot button in this country's
			history and it needs to be pushed
			harder.  If we are ever to live
			side by side in peace and harmony.
			It's about promoting racial healing.


			Go on.  Good so far.


			I know you're familiar with minstrel
			shows.  They came about at the turn
			of the 19th century.  It was a
			variety show in which the talent
			was in blackface - singing, dancing,
			telling jokes, doing skits.
			Dunwitty, I ask you when was the
			last time there was a good variety
			show on the air.  Carol Burnett?
			HeeHaw?





			Word!!!


			So let's take this great form, this
			very American tradition of
			entertainment into the 21st century,
			into the new millennium.


			The name of the show?


			It is called: MANTAN - THE NEW



			I'm lovin' it.  You know how I know?
			Because I'm getting a boner, my
			Johnson is hard, no disrespect my
			sister.

Dunwitty starts walking around his office, pumping his first.


			I'm feelin' dis'!


			It will take a lot of courage and
			backbone on the part of the CNS to
			get this on the air.  In fact, I
			would understand fully if the
			subject matter is deemed too
			risque, too controversial.


			Don't worry about that, that's my
			department.  Now who do we cast?
			We need a star.  Can Whoopi sing or
			dance?


			I don't know if Whoopi is the way
			to go.


			Are these our two stars, sitting
			here in front of my nose?  Which
			one is Mantan again?


			That's me.





			And Cheeba is Sleep 'n' Eat.



Cheeba.  A look of surprise is on his face.  Complete, utter
surprise.


			That's a great handle.


			Mantan and Sleep 'n Eat.  Two real
			coons.  I know we're way out there
			but it's satire.


			I want you take it there.  All the
			way to the edge and back.

Sloan looks at Delacroix with concern.


			Every week we follow the trials and
			tribulations of two real coons -
			Mantan and Sleep 'n Eat.  The Dusky
			Duo.


			What are there character traits?


			Ignorant, dullwitted, lazy, and
			unlucky.


			Exactly!


			Mantan is an uneducated Negro who
			always by some stroke of
			unbelievable stupidity makes his
			best laid plans go haywire.


			And Sleep 'n Eat is his comical
			sidekick?


			Yep, you guessed it.


			This could be bigger than "Amos and
			Andy."





			Protest finally forced "Amos and
			Andy" off the air.  Could stop us
			from ever getting on.


			Let'em try.  I will kill to make
			this happen.

Delacroix looks at Sloan.


			Negroes would be in an uproar.


			So what.  We would just give the
			NAACP a donation that would be the
			end of that.  No such thing as bad
			publicity.  So what.  Earlier you
			said singing and dancing.


			Mantan right here is a gifted
			hoofer.  He has educated feet.


			Who are the other characters?


			Do we have characters?  How about
			Honeycutt, Snowflake, Rastus,
			Nigger, Jim, Sambo, Jungle Bunny,
			and how could we forget Aunt Jemima.

Dunwitty is dying with laughter.  He's the only one.


			We gonna hit 'em wid da BOMB DICKEY
			on dis' one.  What's the setting?


			In the projects.  Like Eddie
			Murphy's "The PJ's."


			Ya first bad move.  Projects been
			done.  That's one of the problems
			now, everything, movies, TV, are
			set in the urban jungle, da hood.
			That's so tired.  Mantan's
			Millennium Minstrel Show should be
			set on a plantation.  In Alabama.






			And every week these Alabama porch
			monkeys will make us cry, make us
			laugh, make us look at our own
			humanity.  Make us feel good to be
			alive.


			I don't know about that plantation
			angle.


			What are you talkin' 'bout?  It's
			the move.  Stay wid me now.  We're
			movin' fast.  What does everybody
			else think about this?


			We'd get a lot of mail.

She laughs, it's a fake one at that.


			Mr. Dunwitty, there wouldn't be
			another show like it.


			I've always wanted to be on
			television.


			I like you.  Sleep 'n Eat.  That's
			funny.  Mantan, how do you feel
			about performing in black face?


			As long as the hoofing is real,
			that I can do my thing, I can
			blacken up.  Let me hit it, beats
			and rhythms, express myself.


			Show me a little somethin' somethin'.

Mantan starts to put on his new tap shoes.


			Delacroix, you dug deep, deeper
			than deep.

Mantan is ready.





			I'm gonna give you just a taste.
			My tap shoes are brand new.  I
			haven't trained 'em yet.

He starts to work out.


			Rhythms, rhythms, rhythms.  Beats,
			beats, beats.  No Fred Astaire
			here, baby.  Just rawness.

Dunwitty clears his desk of everything, just knocks stuff
flying onto the floor.  And Mantan taking the cue, jumps up
on his desk and really starts hitting it.



Delacroix, as he watches his creation, it's not a happy face.



Mantan, he's bringing it home.  With the final move, he
leaps off the desk into the middle of the office, and FREEZES.



The office.


			That'swhatI'mtalkin''bout.
			That'swhatI'mtalkin''bout!  He's
			off the hiz-hook!


			We think so.


			Sleep 'n Eat, what do you do?


			I play the straight man.  I do some
			singing and dancing also.  I also
			manage Mantan.


			Oh you do so?


			I'm the man behind the man behind
			the man.


			You da man.





			No, you da man.


			I'm gonna run upstairs with this.
			If CNS doesn't want to do this,
			somebody else will have da balls to
			pull the trigger.  I want to thank
			each and every one of you.  This is
			great, Delacroix.  I'll get back to
			you later today.



Cheeba and Mantan are walking in midtown Manhattan.  They
both have a pep in their step, money in their pockets, and a
roof over their heads.


			Life is beginning to look up.  It's
			all good in da neighborhood.


			You might be right.


			Why are you smiling so?

His smile is a mile wide.


			I'm not smiling.


			Naw, not you.  It can't be.  That
			hottie Sloan Hopkins.


			It's that bad, huh?  It's all over
			my face.


			No shame in ya game.  She got ya
			nostrils, ya chnoz is wide open.
			Sloan's what we certified ladies'
			men call low hanging fruit.


			Certified ladies' man, huh?


			She's also moorish.





			What's that?


			Moorish.  Ya get a little taste of
			dat booty, ya wanna get some MORE.


			Seconds and thirds, too.


			Sloan is all 'dat.  I try her.  I'm
			a tri-sexual.


			You'd try anything.  I got first
			dibs.  You get ya own stuff.


			Naw, just jokin'.  That's you.
			That's you.



Delacroix sits with Manray and Cheeba in the living room.


			I want you to start using the name
			Mantan and not Manray if you don't
			mind.


			Why?


			You have to start getting into your
			character.


			At the risk of sounding ignorant...

Cheeba turns quickly towards Manray.


			...don't say a word but who is this
			cat Mantan you keep talkin' 'bout?

Delacroix hits the remote button.  The TV and VCR are powered.



Television.  We see MANTAN MORELAND in some obscure movie.





			This is Mantan Moreland.



Television.  Mantan reacts to seeing a ghost.


			He was a clown, a buffoon but he
			was funny.



Living room.


			That ain't funny.


			DeLa, I don't know 'bout this.


			Gentlemen, the show, our show will
			be satirical.  You know what that
			is, don't you?  Trust me on this one.


			We might need some mo' money behind
			this.


			That can be done.


			Mantan?


			Mantan!!



THE MAU-MAU's in full effect, bob their heads to the funky
track that blasts from the studio monitors.



Studio.  They pass around joints that look like they've been
on steroids and 64 ounce JUGULARS of DA BOMB MALT LIQUOR -
liquid crack, the preferred alcoholic beverage of GHETTO
NEGROES.  All the members of the MAU-MAU's are AFRICAN
AMERICAN except one.  There is one Caucasian member.  He
goes by the name 1/16th BLACK, the engineer tech-whiz kid
computer geek.





			Yo, Big Black, we needs a name for
			this joint.


			How 'bout...

Big Black takes a long, long drag on a joint, then he
quickly empties a 64 oz. in one swing without missing a
beat, without missing a head nod.


			Black Iz Black?

The whole group goes crazy with the title of the song.


			That's da bomb.


			That's gonna give me some
			inspiration.


			Gonna make me get my flow on.


			We should call dis da BLACK album.

Everyone starts high-fiving each other.


			Yo, check it out.  We have never
			conformed to none of the white
			man's rules and regulations and
			later for that ole slave owner
			Webster.  Therefore I respectfully
			submit BIG BLACK that we from now
			on, hence forth and whatnot spell
			BLACK: B-L-A-K, not B-L-A-C-K.


			I feel dat.


			B-L-A-K.  BLAK.  The darkest of all
			colors, the opposite of white.  A
			member of an African people.  But
			check it out, here's where the grey
			people try to get slick with their
			trickery.  Listen to the full
			connotations.  GLOOMY.  DEPRESSING.








			Need I say more.


			B-L-A-K it is.



A middle-aged African-American woman is working in the
kitchen.  Delacroix sits at the kitchen table talking with
her.  This is his MOM, ORCHID DOTHAN.

Orchid puts a plate of food in front of her son.


			You must think I'm some kind of fool.


			It looks delicious.


			You hear me talkin' to you.  The
			only time you come up here when
			something is wrong.


			C'mon, Mommy, don't start with that
			I'm an ungrateful son stuff.


			I said no such thing.  All I said
			is that something must be wrong.

She sits down with him.


			How's the food?


			Can't beat it with a hammer.  Well,
			since you asked, it looks like I
			may have a new show, a pilot being
			shot.


			That's wonderful.  Isn't that what
			you always wanted, a show of your
			own?

He talks between mouthfuls.





			It was.  It is.  But this is a
			different kind of show.


			If at first it's not what you want,
			just work that much harder, Peerless.


			Mommy, please don't call me that.


			Son, Peerless is your name.  Now
			you might be one of these Hollywood
			types, change your name and all
			that but Peerless Dothan is on your
			birth certificate.


			I know what's on my birth
			certificate.  You heard from Daddy?


			I guess he's still on the road.
			What kind of show is this?  Are
			they some Negroes in it without
			being buffoons?


			To answer your question, there are
			a lot of Negroes in it and what is
			your definition of buffoons?


			Peerless, I didn't raise a buffoon.
			We have enough of those on
			television already.


			Please let me know when you hear
			from Daddy, get a number or
			something.


			I will.  And good luck with your
			show.  I hope it's a huge success.
			You've worked very hard.  You
			deserve it.

Delacroix gets up from his seat and hugs his mother.






A celebration is going on as Delacroix, Sloan, Cheeba and
Mantan sit at a table.



Table.  Cheeba and Mantan are giddy.  Sloan looks at
Delacroix who is visibly not happy.


			You okay?


			I feel like somebody hit me upside
			da head with a sledgehammer.


			DeLa - what's the matter with you.


			You ain't happy about the green
			light?


			People show their happiness in a
			lot of different ways.


			Well, homeboy, looks like he's at a
			funeral.


			I'm happy for all of us.  It's just
			we have a great responsibility now.
			The pressure is on.


			Pressure?  DeLa, you don't know
			what the hell real pressure is.
			SHEEETT!!!  This is lightstuff.
			Now when you scramblin' out on the
			street in da January winter and the
			hawk is talkin' to you with NO
			money and NO prospects of money
			anytime soon, now that there is
			some pressure.


			I didn't mean it to sound like that.





			That's the way it came out.  Let me
			ask you one question.  Have you
			ever been in want, in need your
			entire privileged life?


			Now I'm privileged?!  Why?  Because
			I didn't grow up on food stamps and
			welfare?  Because I didn't call
			home a cardboard box?  No, I never
			ever went to bed hungry and I'm
			proud of it, too.  Whoever told you
			that living in poverty earns you
			somekind of badge of honor flat out
			lied to you.


			The point I'm trying to make is
			that this is a blessing.  It's
			going to be fun doing this show and
			we should all look at it that way.

Delacroix gets up from the table and leaves.


			What's wrong with him?


			Must be the pressure.

Cheeba and Mantan laugh, give each other some dap.  A highly
attractive PUERTO RICAN female walks over to their table.
This is JESSICA GRILLO.


			Sorry I'm late.

Cheeba and Mantan are in awe.


			Hey, girl.  This is my best friend,
			Jessica Grillo.  I invited her down
			to celebrate with us.


			I'm Cheeba.


			I'm Mantan.

They both rise.





			Please, have a seat.


			Sloan never told us she had friends
			like you.


			In fact, we never knew she had any
			friends period.


			Later for you.


			She has a lot of friends


			Male?


			Yes.


			A lot?


			Enough.

Sloan and Jessica laugh at the expense of these guys.


			I propose a toast.

She grabs an empty glass and pours herself some champagne.


			To the success of your show.  Good
			luck.

Everyone raises their glasses.  CLINK!


			Excuse me.

Sloan gets up from the table and takes after Delacroix.



Steps. Sloan catches up with Delacroix at the rest room area.


			Wait here.




She goes to the ladies' cubicle.



Delacroix.  He leans against the wall.



Bathroom door.  Sloan comes out, grabs him inside.



Sloan locks the door.


			What is your problem?


			My problem is MANTAN THE NEW



			Why did you even come up with that
			shit if you didn't want it made?


			It was the principle.  Dunwitty had
			to be enlightened.  I was making a
			point.  I take pride in my work.
			Plus, I already told you I wasn't
			gonna walk away from my money.


			Fuck da money.  Why do through all
			this effort?  Why?  Are you looking
			for love from Dunwitty?  For
			respect?  Dunwitty and his likes
			don't give a goddamn about you.  So
			now what are you gonna do?

Someone begins to pound on the bathroom door.


			Will you please let me in?  I have
			to use the toilet.


			You're gonna have to hold it in
			because we're not finished yet...

She returns her attention to Delacroix.


			...QUIT then.





			Even if money wasn't an issue,
			Dunwitty will still go ahead
			without me and that could be more
			dangerous.


			What's the chances of MANTAN being
			picked up?


			I wouldn't bet against it.  My
			Negroidal ass is stuck between the
			proverbial rock and a hard place.


			Like I said, all this for some
			twisted, distorted sense of
			principal.  Dunwitty, he just
			tolerates your Negroidal ass, he
			doesn't respect it.

The banging starts again.


			Please open this bathroom door
			immediately.  You are being very
			inconsiderate.

Sloan unlocks the door and they exit.



Ladies' bathroom.  Sloan and Delacroix file past the strange
looks of the manager and FIVE WOMEN waiting to use the
bathroom as they rush in.




			I strongly feel that a Negro should
			direct this.  This kind of satire
			is a high wire act in a gale storm.
			One misstep and we're doing "Amos
			and Andy."  Only a Negro will have
			the sensitivity and cultural
			awareness to navigate this dangerous
			terrain.


			To hire someone solely on their
			ethnicity, gender or religion is
			not right.  It's un-American.  I
			will hire someone who is most
			qualified for this particular job.





			I was hoping to perhaps direct some
			episodes myself, if not the pilot
			soon after.


			I want a hot, young white director.
			Maybe the kid, that pheenom who
			just did that hot new sexy Madonna
			video.


			You're telling me some white boy is
			gonna direct this pilot?


			I just want you to meet him.  Keep
			an open mind.


			Besides, what does he know about
			Negroes?


			Probably nuthin', but that's why
			it's such a sexy way to go.
			Sometimes an outsider has a fresh
			new outlook, a different unique
			perspective.  A black director,
			y'know what he's gonna do given the
			subject matter?  With this kid, the
			possibilities are endless.


			What are his qualifications besides
			being a white male and directing a
			hot new sexy freaky Madonna video?


			If Spielburg can direct "The Color
			Purple" and "Amistad", our whiz kid
			can direct the Mantan pilot.


			That's exactly my point.  Has he
			even directed actors before in
			anything?


			No!!!  Just meet the guy.  That's
			all I'm asking.  Look, I'll even
			let you choose your own musical
			director.  You can have that.





			In the immortal words of Derrick
			Coleman, WHOOOPDEEDAMNDOO!!!


			Derrick Coleman, he possessed all
			the talent in the world, coulda,
			shoulda, been a great ballplayer
			but alas D.C. didn't want it bad
			enough.  Delacroix, do you want it?
			Bad enough to kill for it?  Do you
			want it that much.

Delacroix stares at Dunwitty.



Delacroix, followed by Sloan, enters the room full of writers.



Delacroix

He surveys the room.



All of the writers are Caucasian - male and female.  Every
single last one.



Conference room.  Delacroix and Sloan sit down at the head
of the long oval table.


			Good morning, for those of you who
			don't know me, I'm Pierre Delacroix.
			I'm running things and this here is
			my assistant Sloan Hopkins.


			Hello.


			I've never worked with any of you
			and you've never worked with me so
			we'll be starting from scratch.
			I'm a fair person, a straight
			shooter and I don't hold my tongue.
			Everybody up in here should know I
			had nothing to do with you being
			hired.






			I would have preferred at least one
			other Negro writer.  Any questions?
			Comments?

MONA raises her hand.


			Yes, your name?


			He, I'm Mona.


			Hi, Mona.


			I perfectly understand where you're
			coming from.  As a minority I can
			relate to your struggle also.  But
			I think you should give us all a
			chance.  We want this pilot to be
			successful just as much as you.
			Please don't be so quick to judge
			us based only on our whiteness.


			Oh, is that what I'm doing?

BETH jumps in.


			I think because of our background
			we can bring a unique perspective
			to Mantan.

SETH pipes in also.


			A fresh pair of eyes.  A new look,
			insight, new angle that hasn't been
			seen before.


			I've heard this somewhere before.

David raises his hand.





			My name is David.  I do think it
			would be better to have some
			African-American writers but for
			whatever reason they are not here.
			I don't know if they couldn't find
			any people with experience, they
			wouldn't work for the pay or
			refused to work for the show.  I
			don't know and nobody in this room
			probably knows either.  I'm looking
			at this as a unique opportunity.
			We all should.  I'm a damn good
			writer and I'm ready to go to work.

Everyone in the room applauds.  Sloan looks at Delacroix.




			This thing was rigged, the deck was
			stacked, the fix was in.  Could Don
			King be near?  Good thing Sloan had
			my back.  She's my rock.  This was
			going to be a whole lot of work.




			David, I appreciate your comments.
			Anybody got an ideas?  Everybody
			just talk out loud.


			I've always liked the format of
			Rowan and Martin's "LAUGH-IN."


			That could be cool.


			What about something like "The
			Jeffersons?"  I grew up in Idaho so
			that's how I got my understanding
			of black people.  Through Sherman
			Helmsley, LOUISSEE!!!.


			"Good Times" was better.  Kid Dy-no
			mite!!!





			You pole are going to far back for
			me.  I think we have to go after a
			hipper feel.  Like the stuff Eddie
			Murphy used to do on "Saturday
			Night Live."


			Or Martin.  You go girl.


			What about the  black exploitation
			films?  No one has ever tried
			making that work on TV.


			And for reason.  Have you ever seen
			"Scream Blacula, Scream?"


			I think, and Delacroix will agree
			with me, the politics of this show
			have to be right.  We should always
			be laughing with our characters,
			not at them.



Delacroix, as the writers continue to ramble on, he lets
them jerk off.


			The mission was accomplished.  All
			of these people left the room
			thinking they would have real input.
			I was writing this pilot alone,
			myself, me.



A long line reaches down the block and around the corner.
It's a "cattle call," open auditions for "Mantan."


			Now came the fun part, finding the
			talented performers to cast in the
			show.

WE DOLLY past the hundreds and hundreds of unemployed
African American actors, many of them dressed in various
costumes.





			Everybody and their mother was
			trying to get in, trying to be seen.
			Trying to get their piece of the
			rock.



Delacroix sits in the first row with Sloan, RUTH, an African
American casting director.  LEVI, the musical director, also
black, is on the stage at the piano.



WE SEE singers, magicians, dancers, acrobats, comedians,
rappers.  Some good, most are terrible.  Many come out on
stage dressed like mammies, Stepin' Fetchit, slaves, pimps,
ho's, hustlers, and basketball players.  It is a cavalcade
of all the stereotypical roles one has seen.



Space.  LULU, a spoken word artist, goes her rendition of



			This was amazing.  Who had told
			these Negroes that this was what we
			were looking for?  The same old
			image, it damn for sure wasn't me.



Lulu.


			Were people this desperate to get
			work?



Delacroix.  He interrupts Lulu.


			Thanks, Ms. Lulu.


			But I had several more poems.


			That's good.  We've seen enough.
			We'll get back to you.

Lulu scurries off stage.





			Next.

The Mau-Mau's run onto the stage, yelling and screaming.

They are all fired up, in fact several fire their 9mm's into
the ceiling.



Delacroix and Sloan.


			This is the group I was telling you
			about.


			Which one is your brother?


			The big one.



Ruth.


			Let's get started here.





Big Black preens around on the stage.


			The Mau-Mau's are up in dis place.
			That's right, the Mau-Mau's.


			What's your name?


			My righteous name is BIG BLACK.


			And what are the Mau-Mau's going to
			do for us today?


			We gonna drop some knowledge,
			wisdom and understanding.  The Mau-
			Mau's, we be scientists.  We drop
			science.






Sloan, who's trying to disappear.  If she sits any lower
she'll be under her seat.




			We're ready when you are.




			Microphone check.  One.  Two.  One.
			Two.  One.  Two.  Hold up.  I gots
			to give my peeps some props.
			Brothers introduce yourself.


			Yo, I'm Double Black.


			Check it, Black Black.


			I'm Smooth Black, the lover in dis'
			piece.


			Hard Black.


			He's Jo Black.


			And he's Mo Black.


			I'm last but not least, you can
			call me 1/16th Black.




			Good.  We're really blacked-oops,
			backed up, so shall we begin?




			Microphone check.  One.  Two.  One.
			Two.  Yo, the name of this joint is
			BLAK IZ BLAK.  Hit it.




The booming track starts and the Mau-Mau's do their thing,
bouncing all over the stage.  The lyrics about everything
that is BLAK!!!



A look of disbelief is on his face.


			Needless to say, the Mau-Mau's did
			not fit into our plans.



She's in shock, horrified.


			As I told Sloan, there's a black
			sheep in every family.



Delacroix is screaming at the top of his lungs.


			Finland.  This is a travesty.  A
			debacle.  A mockery.



Dunwitty approaches Delacroix in the lobby of the rehearsal
space.  He is with JUKKA, a young, very young blonde kid.


			Delacroix.  This is the director I
			was telling you about.  Jukka Laks.


			So nice to meet you.


			Nice to meet you.  If you don't
			mind me asking you - how old are you?


			I just turned twenty.


			I'm gonna leave you two creative
			geniuses alone.


			Dunwitty, don't leave.




Dunwitty is out.


			Where are you from?


			Helsinki, which is the capital of
			Finland.


			Finland.


			You know, Finlandia vodka?  Yes?


			Yes, I know.  Jukka, have you ever
			seen a Negro person before?  Even
			had a real conversation with a real
			Negro before?


			What's a Negro.



Delacroix continues to rant and rave.  Sloan is unsuccessful
in attempting to make him be quiet.


			A fiasco.  A disaster.  A boondoggle.
			An abomination.




			Did you just ask me what's a Negro?



			Ahhh!!!  I never heard of that term
			before.  I thought you were BLACK
			of African-American.  No?


			Well before there was BLACK or
			AFRICAN AMERICAN, there were



			Thank you for correcting my
			ignorance.  I'm looking forward to
			working side by side with you.  I
			feel we make a good team.





			How did you get this gig?


			My visual style is very erotic,
			sexy, how do you say - hot?


			This is a TV show, not a music video.


			Then will you teach me what I need
			to know.  Maybe we learn from each
			other, if that's possible, no?




			This is a travesty.  A debacle.


			You've said that already.


			I'm gonna slit my wrists.  Cut my
			throat.  For the love of Joseph.



He's sitting behind his desk, reading new "pink" revisions
of the "MANTAN" pilot.  He screams.


			For the love of Joseph and Mary.

Delacroix bolts out from his office.



Delacroix charges in as Dunwitty and Jukka go over the same
"pink" revisions.


			I will not be held responsible for
			these revisions.  These changes are
			not the way I want to go.  This is
			an outrage.  This is a sham.  A
			violation!


			Calm down, please.


			In Finland, when we get upset...





			I don't give a good goddamn about
			Finland, Norway, Sweden or wherever
			ya blond ass came from.


			We just punched it up a bit.  Made
			it funnier.


			Funnier to who and at who's expense?
			Dunwitty, when Negroes start to run
			amok, the boycotts, when the
			demostrations commence, I'm giving
			them your home address.  Let's see
			how you like it when they picket
			your lawn in Greenwich, Connecticut.


			I seriously doubt that will ever
			happen.  Didn't I tell you I know
			your people better than you do.
			But if by some miracle you're
			correct, I'm gonna invite them
			inside my house and we'll have a
			sit down, discuss it like civil
			human beings.



Much activity is going on.  People are moving to and fro.
WE FOLLOW Delacroix and Sloan.



Delacroix knocks and they enter.



Mantan sits in front of his mirror.


			Just want to say good luck.


			Break a leg.

She gives Mantan a kiss on his cheek.


			Wait a minute.  Hold up.

They all laugh.





			Can I kiss you too?


			Naw.  I'll take the zero.


			You feel good, not nervous?


			I feel fine.


			Not nervous?  Relaxed?


			Sloan, will you take your boss out
			of here so I can get ready.



Sloan and Delacroix enter the dressing room.




			How's the audience?


			Fired up.


			How you feelin'?


			Good.  I'm not sure about this
			material.


			The material is fine.

Sloan cuts a look at this liar.


			You really think so?


			We're trying to do something new
			here, some groundbreaking stuff.


			It's the bone breaking stuff I'm
			worried about.





			Everything's gonna be alright.  You
			and Mantan will be huge stars after
			tonight.


			You really think so?


			Your life will never be the same.


			Let's leave the man in peace so he
			can get ready.




			We both lied to him.


			What do you want me to say?


			Just don't lie to me.



HONEYCUTT, a rotund, elder black man who is one of cast
members, is warming the audience up.



It's very young and diverse.  They are laughing at the comic
stylings of Honeycutt.



Delacroix and Sloan take their seats.


			Good luck, Jukka.  Do a good show.


			Thank you very much.  I always try
			my best.



Mantan is slowly getting dressed.  He puts on an old,
tattered tails .






Sleep 'N Eat is also getting dressed.  He wears a worn
Pullman Porter uniform with red hat to match.



Dunwitty with his black wife in hand, VERNA moves toward
Delacroix and Sloan.


			I want you to meet my lovely wife
			Verna.  Honey, this is Pierre
			Delacroix and Sloan Hopkins.


			Nice to meet you.


			Same here.


			The pleasure is mine.


			My husband has been raving about
			the awesome work you've done.  How
			did you ever think of something
			like this?  It's absolutely
			brilliant.  Pure genius.


			I guess it was divine inspiration.


			Hope to see you both after the
			taping.  Congrats in advance.



Verna and Dunwitty go to the front of the control booth.



Delacroix and Sloan.


			Divine inspiration?

She laughs.


			I was trying to be nice.





			I want to apologize about my
			brother and the Mau-Mau's.  I
			should not have imposed them on you.


			C'mon.  You were only doing what
			family is supposed to be doing for
			family.  You gave your brother a
			shot.  That's all anybody can ask
			for, an opportunity, a chance, a
			shot.  He got his.



Mantan is in front of his dressing room mirror.



Mantan looks, stares at his reflection.



Sleep 'N Eat is staring at himself also.






			We should blacken up like they did
			it back in the day.  Keep the
			ritual the same.

Mantan puts some corks in a dish.


			Pour some alcohol on the corks,
			then light it.



Sleep 'N Eat strikes a match to his corks in a dish.



He watches the cork burn.


			Let them burnt to a crisp, and when
			burnt out, mash them to a powder.






Mantan is mashing the corks.


			Add water, mix to a thick paste.



Sleep 'N Eat is mixing it all together.


			And voila!  You have your blackface.



The audience, which has become restless, starts a rhythmic
clap.


			Please put cocoa butter on your
			face and hands...






			To protect your skin.

He applies cocoa butter to his hands.





He rubs cocoa butter all over his face.





Audience hands are clapping faster.



They're stomping.





Mantan blacks up his face.











Sleep 'N Eat blacks up also.


			The final detail...






			...are the lips.

Mantan is applying lipstick.





Sleep 'N Eat is puckering his lips as he too puts on the
lipstick.


			The redder the lipstick the better.
			I suggest firetruck red.



For the first time WE SEE SLEEP 'N EAT in FULL BLACK FACE.


			Show...





Mantan in FULL BLACK FACE.






The audience is in an uproar when the lights go down.  They
applaud and they quiet as the CURTAIN GOES UP on a bucolic
setting.  It is a combination of WATERMELON PATCH and COTTON







First Sleep 'N Eat then Mantan shuffles onto the stage.


			This is my best friend Sleep 'N Eat.


			And this is my very best friend
			Mantan.


			We're two real COONS!

The audience lets out nervous laughter.  They don't know
what to think.


			We both left the hustle and bustle
			of Uptown, Harlem...


			...the big apple, New York, New York.


			To come back to our roots.


			Our Alabamy Home.  Now we're
			getting countrified.  We is Bama's.


			No mo' "city slickers."  Ahh, can't
			you smell the sweet aroma of the
			ripe watermelons and high cotton?


			Tell 'em what you mean Mistuh Mantan.


			Well, thank you Mistuh Sleep 'N Eat.


			Give or cousins some of dem educated
			feets.

Mantan begins to do a slow, steady step.


			Cousins, first, second, third and
			distant, let's have Mantan take us
			all the way back to a much more
			simpler time.  A time wen men were
			men, women were women, and Neggras
			knew their place.




The AUDIENCE is aghast.  Mantan has picked up the pace.
He's tapping fast and furious.


			Cousins, I want all of you to go to
			your windows.  Go to your windows
			and yell.  Yell, I'm tired of the
			drugs, the crack babies born out of
			wedlock to crackhead aids infested
			parents.  I'm tired of the inflated
			welfare rolls while good wholesome
			Americans bring less and less of
			their paycheck home every two weeks.
			I'm tired, you're tired, we're all
			tired of these so-called bible-
			thumping God fearing, whore mongling
			Professional athletes.  Aren't you
			tired of these basketball-dunking,
			football-running, hop-hip rapping
			ebonic-speaking sex offenders who
			got ten kids from ten different
			Ho's?  I know I am and so is Sleep
			'N Eat.


			You tellin' the truth.


			Go to your windows and yell out,
			scream with all the life you can
			muster up inside your assaulted,
			bruised and battered bodies.  I'M



Mantan stops dancing and collapses.



They're stunned.  They can't believe what they've heard,
what they've seen.  What they've been witness to.



They look at the black people in the audience.



He starts to clap slowly.



Slowly more black people begin to applaud.  Slowly it sweeps
up into the black people.




The WHITE AUDIENCE, of course, has been waiting to see how
their black brothers and sisters would react.  Now feeling
comfortable and safe, they too being to join the applause.



The applause changes into laughter.  It is not nervous
laughter we hear, but straight out RIOTOUS LAUGHTER.



The laughter is contagious.



Mantan starts to move, he's coming back from the dead.  He
slowly gets up from his prostate position as he HEARS:

A WAYBACK ALABAMA JIG played by the house band, THE PORCH
MONKEYS, led by musical director Levi.  Mantan is joined on
stage by the other hoofers in the show: JUNGLE BUNNY,
SNOWFLAKE, SAMBO, AUNT JEMIMA, RASTUS, NIGGER JIM, plus
SLEEP 'N EAT.  Each take turn as it evolves into an elaborate
DANCE NUMBER.  The hoofers and the band are also in black
face.



They are rolling down the aisles.





Delacroix looks like he has seen a ghost.



He buries his face in his hands.



Delacroix is in the same position as the scene before.  Face
buried in his hands.



It rings and he picks it up.


			Hello?






Dunwitty drives his Mercedes Benz CL 600 Coupe.


			Yo, DeLa, I just got the news from
			the CNS brass.  They saw some clips
			from the pilot and they're rushing
			it onto the air.  Yo, we're a
			midseason replacement, ordered 12
			shows.  We're on in 3 weeks.  Didya
			hear what I just said, Yo?




			They didn't even view a rough cut,
			just some scenes we quickly cut
			together.




			This has to be a big mistake.


			The big mistake was my not believing
			in your genius earlier.  From the
			gitgo, from jump street.


			Hold on a sec, I got a call.




			Hello, Mommy, let me get rid of
			this other call.




			I gots to go, it's my Moms.


			I want to meet her one day, please
			tell her the great news.  I'm OUT
			like Vanilla Ice.



She is on the phone with her son.





			Peerless, your father called.




			I'll be right over.



It's a warm summer night.


			So what's up with you?


			What do you want to know?


			The good stuff.


			I'm an asthmatic.  Been one all my
			life.  Can't go anywhere without an
			inhaler.


			What else?


			Are you trying to rap to me?



Delacroix sits at the kitchen table.


			He wants you to come and see him.


			He said that?


			Yes he did.


			Where is he?


			He's performing at some place
			outside of Richmond, Virginia.


			I can't go all the way down south.





			Richmond is not all the way down
			south.


			I don't even know why you're still
			concerned over him.  Daddy's not
			with you.


			Regardless, he still is your father.


			It's gonna be hard for me to get
			away with the show taking off.


			Even more reason to see him.  He'll
			be overjoyed with your success.


			C'mon, Mommy.  Daddy hasn't been
			impressed with anything I've ever
			done.  From winning my fifth grade
			Spelling Bee to the present.


			Peerless, last time, go see your
			father.



Mantan and Sloan are sitting on a park bench, nothing is
being said.  He sits up and starts to do a dance for her.
To her.



Mantan is doing that "Mating" tap dance.


			Are you trying to seduce me?

He puts his index finger over his mouth - "Quiet."


			You think that's gonna work, huh?

He quickly jumps up on the bench, does some intricate steps
then pulls Sloan up from her sitting position.



They kiss.






Delacroix is driving "down south."



Delacroix adjusts the mirror so he can see himself.  HE
SPEAKS TO US through the MIRROR


			I figured this was a good time to
			get away.  Just jump in my ride and
			go.  I always did my best thinking
			when I was driving alone.  I needed
			to think out clearly what I was
			going to do with this MANTAN - THE




Delacroix is driving on his way to "Ole Virginny."



Delacroix pulls up in the parking lot of a rinky-kink,
funky, greasy BAR/CLUB/BAR-B-Q joint.



"MAMA'S SUGAR SHAK" - most the letters do not light up,
underneath it, "2-NITE - JUNEBUG."



It's loud as hell as Delacroix enters this smoky, dark
establishment.



This must be a big night in here because the PATRONS are
dressed to the nines.  What's in style down here is a lot
different from what's happening en Nueva York.  Many of the
men are dressed like PIMPS from 70's BLAXPLOITATION FILM,
the ladies like HOOTCHIE MAMAS from "Luke" video.



Delacroix works himself through the crowded BAR/DISCO into
another small room.



He walks into a small space where his father JUNEBUG is on
the stage.






He is a good-looking man, the only speckle of gray in his
hair betrays his age.  As he walks around the small stage
doing his comedy stylings, he keeps a drink in one hand and
sips it often.



Delacroix sits in the back so his father can't see him.



He looks around.



It's dead in here.  The room is nearly empty.



A couple gets loud, arguing over something.




			'Cuse me.  Please.  Can you please
			show me some respect.  I'm up here
			trying to make a living.


			Mind yo' business.


			Don't make me have to come over
			there and whoop you upside ya head.

The sparse AUDIENCE laughs.


			Just messin' with ya.  But please
			if you and your lady need to
			discuss something, take it outside.
			Thank you.

He continues on with his show.



Delacroix walks over to the fighting couple.





			Brother man, that's my father up
			there and I drove a long way to see
			him perform.  Please take this
			fifty, go buy you and the young
			lady some drinks in the club.

The guy looks him up and down.


			That's yo' Daddy?

Delacroix nods.


			Don't need yo money for drinks.
			Besides, she's drunk already.
			C'mon, let's go.

The guy grabs his friend by the wrist and drags her kicking
and screaming out the room.




			Don't bring your woman out if you
			can't keep her in deep check.  If
			my woman ever did something crazy
			like that I'd put my size 12 dead
			up in her ass.

This gets the biggest laugh of the night.



Delacroix knocks.


			What do you want?


			I want to speak with you.


			Go away, unless you got my money.


			It's me, Peerless.



He enters into a closet, it's a makeshift dressing room.  A
younger lady, much younger than Junebug - DOT - stands
behind him as she massages his neck.




Junebug gets up from his chair, rushes to his son and they
embrace.


			Son.  Good to seeya.  Good to seeya.


			It's been a long time.


			Pull up a chair.  Oh, excuse me,
			this is my lady DOT.


			Pleased to meet you.


			Glad to meet you, too.  You are all
			your father talks about.


			Is that so?


			Honey, pour me and my son a drink.

They both sit down as drinks are poured.


			I'll leave you two alone.

She kisses Junebug on the forehead before leaving.


			Good woman.  I trained her right.


			Daddy, she's younger than me.


			My game is still strong.  No Viagra
			for me, don't need no chemicals.
			Just my tonic.

He holds up his drink and kills it in one gulp.


			Purely for medicinal purposes.


			I thought you had promised Mommy
			you stopped.





			I did.  I'm not an alcoholic.  I
			just like to drink.


			How did you end up here?


			How did I end up at the third rate
			chittlin' circuit greasy hole in
			the wall in West Hell, Virginny?
			Is that what you're asking ya Daddy?

Delacroix takes a sip of his drink.


			That's what I'm askin'.


			Because I had too much pride.  Too
			much integrity.  I wouldn't lick
			nobody's butt.  Some material I
			refused to do.


			Daddy, it can't be just because of
			that.  There had to be other factors.

Junebug pours himself another stiff one.


			That's the only reason, period.
			They only want one certain kind of
			black comic.


			Another one of your conspiracies to
			hold ya career back?


			All I know is what happened to me.
			All that other mess I just file
			into the "life's too short" category.

He downs another one.  Junebug drinks like a fish.


			Enough about me, what's happening
			with you?


			The same old, same old.  Trying to
			get my stuff through.





			Dem white boys giving you a hard
			time?


			Nuthin' I can't handle.


			The truth is never let them seeya
			sweat.  You do that, that's half
			the battle.


			Where do you go from here?


			Three nights Charleston, South
			Carolina.


			I didn't mean that, in life.


			In life?  I'ma keep on living,
			having a good drink, got me a good
			young woman, make a couple of
			dollars and make people laugh.
			Haven't I always tol' you all
			nigga's are entertainers?  The
			question is what are you gonna do,
			Peerless?



Delacroix and Dot are on either side of Junebug as they hold
him up.



Delacroix struggles to put the key in the door.



The door is kicked open as the trio comes in.  Junebug is
drunk as a skunk.


			I'm not an alcoholic.  I just like
			to drink.


			We know that baby.





			Let's get him over to the bed.


			Baby, you treat me so good.
			Peerless, you're a good son, I love
			you.  You never gave me no trouble.

They lay him down on the bed.


			I love you too, Daddy.


			Always keep 'em laughing.

Dot takes off his shoes.  He's out like a light.  Gone.


			How long has my father been like
			this?


			Not that often.  He was excited to
			see you.


			So he drank himself into a stuper?


			The drinking is for the pain.  It
			doesn't kill it, just dulls it.


			So what's up with you?


			I was a hostess at this club, your
			Daddy was performing and I had
			never laughed so hard in my life.
			He asked me to come with him.  I
			quit my job and we've been together
			ever since.

Delacroix pulls out his billfold and gives Dot five crisp
new model hundred dollar bills.


			Don't tell him it's from me or he
			won't take it.


			Your father is proud of you.





			He never showed it.


			He did the best way he knew how,
			Junebug is stubborn just like you.

Delacroix kisses his sleeping father of the forehead.


			I'll take care of him.



Delacroix is driving back home - up North.




			My Daddy.  I'm not mad at him.  Not
			at all.  Junebug was the reason I
			got into this business in the first
			place.




			And I thank him for that.  However,
			it did me no good seeing him in
			that state.  Daddy was a broken man.
			He had been a strong man, with
			conviction, integrity, principles
			and look where it had gotten him.
			I had to ask myself did I want to
			end up where he was?



Delacroix adjusts the mirror so he can see himself, and



			That was the last time I ever saw
			my father.



Delacroix's car flies past us.





Mantan starts to black up.






Sleep 'N Eat also begins to black up.



Honeycutt stands in front of the festive young, mixed
audience.


			Everybody say Ho!


			Ho!


			That'swhatI'mtalkin'bout!
			That'swhatI'mtalkin'bout!  I want
			to be the first to welcome you to
			the second taping of Mantan - The
			New Millennium Minstrel Show.

Audience applauds.


			My name is Honeycutt and I want to
			try something different.  Can you
			do this for me?




			Yeah!




			I'm gonna start a chant and I want
			y'all to follow me.  Let's make our
			own 2 real coons know you're ready
			to start the show.




			Let's go Niggers.  Then clap five
			times like this.

Honeycutt claps the cadence.





			C'mon.  It's easy.  It's the same
			thing y'all do out at the Yankee
			game, no different 'cept we changing
			one word.  Everybody go it?









			Alright.  Here we go.  Let's go





			Let's go NIGGERS.





Mantan is finishing the black.


			Let's go niggers!



Sleep 'N Eat is finishing his Black.


			Let's go niggers!




			Louder.  They can't hear you.
















Mantan is applying his FIRETRUCK RED lipstick.






Sleep 'N Eat's also applying lipstick.






Their CHANT is deafening.  The audience's hyped.


			You sound so good to me.  Ladies
			and gentlemen, boys and girls,
			without further adieu, let's
			welcome youknowwhoI'mtalkin'about,
			your two favorite coons, Da Dusky
			Duo, our stars Mantan and Sleep 'N
			Eat.

The audience goes crazy as the curtain goes up and the house
band kicks in with the Mantan theme.



The setting is a chicken coop, live roosters and chickens
move freely about Mantan and Sleep 'N Eat.  They start right
into their routine at a furious pace.


			Y'know my lady Lucindy?


			The one with da big...


			Not her, the one with the little...


			Oh her.


			Tomorrow is her birthday and I want
			to get her something really nice,
			like a...





			No, not that.  How 'bout...


			She hates dem.


			Too bad.  How 'bout a dress?


			Sleep 'N Eat, one of dem slinky,
			sexy, little foxy...


			Mantan, way too short, too tight.
			Get her one of dose...


			...to big.  The in-between one, not
			too tight, not too lose.


			That'll work.  I just bought one
			for myself.

Mantan cocks his limp wrist.  The audience ROARS.


			Not for me, my woolly headed cotton
			pickin' friend for...


			I thought you got rid of...


			...that was Vicki, her best friend.
			Dat dress will cast ya round...


			...dat's too much money.  I can't
			'ford it.  I needs me a dress that
			cost no mo' than...


			...aconite get it dat cheap.


			I'll buy her a less expensive
			dress, so I can have some money
			left over to take her out to dinner.


			We should go out on a double date.





			I heard ya lady is wild.


			No.  That's her second cousin.
			Who's married to Li'l Bit.


			Oh, because on our first date, she
			let me...


			...no, she didn't...


			...yes she did.


			...I heard different, thought that
			was...


			...not that time...


			So when are you comin' to pick us up?


			Around...


			...too early...


			...then what about...


			...too late, maybe around...


			...perfect...


			That's what I like about you and me.
			We git along...


			...like macaroni and cheese...


			...like grits and butter...


			...like fried and chicken...





			...like sleep and eat.

OFF-SCREEN we HEAR the VOICE of MASSA CHARLIE, he's the
overseer of this plantation.


			Who goes in there?


			We'd better hide.


			It's dat mean, evil overseer Massa
			Charlie.

They hide behind some boxes.


			I say who goes in there?


			There's nobody in here 'cept us
			chickens.

Massa Charlie enters the chicken coops with a SHOTGUN
blazing.  Sleep 'N Eat and Mantan do a jig as they try to
escape the buckshot.



They're rolling down the aisles in hysterics.



Everyone in the booth is laughing uncontrollably.  Except
Delacroix.  Even Sloan is dying.


			Who's side are you on?


			I'm sorry, I can't help it.  It's
			too funny.

Delacroix starts to crack a smile.  He is definitely trying
to hold it in.



He sits in front of the television, which is off.





			It was the Day of Reckoning.  After
			a massive advertising and publicity
			campaign...



Delacroix stares at the blank screen.


			...the public would finally get a
			chance to view Mantan.  I was
			feelin' a little bit like Dr.
			Frankenstein.



Sloan, Jessica, Mantan and Cheeba are gathered around the
television in the small studio apartment, jabbering away.


			What would their reaction be?  I
			hadn't the foggiest.


			Everybody shut up.



We see the OPENING of MANTAN - THE NEW MILLENNIUM MINSTREL
SHOW.  It is in CLAYMATION.  Mantan and Sleep 'N Eat are
doing a "jig."  Their noses and lips are done in a grotesque
characterization, BIG WIDE BEGROIDAL NOSES and JUICY RED



			Calling all my cousins, you're
			about to take a trip down to Hang
			'Em High Plantation, home of your
			two favorite coons, Mantan and
			Sleep 'N Eat.



Mantan isn't happy.


			Why they gotta make my nose so big?


			Look at my lips.


			I think it looks cute.






She can't believe her eyes.


			Mantan - The New Millennium Minstrel
			Show is proudly sponsored by...






			...Da Bomb.  We'll take you there.
			And...






			...Timmi Hillnigger.  Keep it
			really real.




			We will be right back with the
			start of our show, but first, a
			word from our proud sponsors.





The TRACK is BOOMING.  The fire hydrant is open on this
sizzling day and practically butt naked "Playaz" and "Hoes"
dance in the water.  Each one is guzzling from 64 ounce
JUGULARS of DA BOMB which are in the shape of a bomb.



He's in the spot, he's the spokesperson.


			DA BOMB.  Yo.  It's 125% pure
			pleasure MALT LIQUOR.


			It's Da Bomb, Baby.


			It's Da Bomb, Baby.






Nothing but butts and breasts gyrating.


			Clinical testing has found that
			Viagra doesn't work on black
			"johnson's."  That's why our
			scientists developed Da Bomb for
			you.  It makes you feel like a MAN
			and it makes dem bitches feel like
			Natural Women - I mean Ho's.


			It makes my nature rise.


			I want to get funked up.


			DA BOMB - 125% pure pleasure malt
			liquor.

Honeycutt takes a big swallow from his 64 oz. Jugular.  Two
statuesque ladies sandwich him, grinding up on Honeycutt.
He takes the jugular from his lips.  As he speaks, flames
come out of his mouth.


			Oooooo-weeee!!  Da Bomb makes me
			wanna get my freak on.


			Honeycutt, let's get our swerve on@





A middled-aged Caucasian male, TIMMI HILLNIGGER, is
surrounded by a mob deep of hard-looking PLAYAZ.


			Yo, my name be Timmi Hillnigger.  I
			was born and raised up in Strong
			Island so you know I know about my
			peeps, my niggaz in the git-toe.  I
			design and own TIMMI HILLNIGGER
			125% Authentic Git-Toe active wear.

DAWG #1 steps forward.


			Hillnigger keeps it real.




DAWG #2 steps forward also.


			Timmi's gots all da latest gear.


			If you want to keep it really real,
			never get out of the git-toe, stay
			broke and continue to add to my
			multibillion dollar corporation,
			keep buyin' all my gear.  The Timmi
			Hillnigger collection.  We keep it
			so real we give you the bullet holes.

Hoe #1 laying in a white thong on top of a white Rolls-Royce.


			All my niggaz wear Hillnigger or
			they don't wear a damn thing at all.
			It's Git-toe Fabulous.



The lights are on in the White House.


			I was sunk, dead.  My goose was
			cooked.  The cat was in the bag and
			the bag was in the river.



President Clinton is seen behind a TV set laughing his head
off.



The President of the U.S. stands behind a podium and takes
questions from the press.


			Did you watch MANTAN - THE NEW
			MILLENNIUM MINSTREL SHOW last night?


			Yes I did and I can honestly say I
			feel it promotes racial healing.



Dunwitty, Delacroix and Sloan are joined by a young Caucasian
woman, MYRNA GOLDFARB.





			I know all of you have seen the
			overnight ratings.  Through the
			roof.  But in this game you gotta
			be one, two, three steps ahead.  I
			introduce you to Myrna Goldfarb.
			She's the best media consultant in
			the biz.


			First, I would like to say I love
			the show.  It's very courageous.
			My parents marched in Selma,
			Alabama with Dr. King.


			Why are you here?


			Good question, straight to the
			point.  I like your style.  Because
			of the content of the show we can
			expect some spirited reactions.


			Myrna is here to help us plan our
			strategy.


			The best defense is offense.


			I thought it was the other way
			around.


			You get my point.  I've mapped out
			some strategies to help bolster our
			position.


			Which is?


			That this is fun.  Nice wholesome
			fun.


			Goldfarb, run it down for them.





			The Mantan Manifesto.  Catchy ain't
			it?  Number One.  We gainfully
			employ African Americans, in front
			of and behind the cameras.  Two.
			Let the audience decide.  Three.
			Who put these critics in charge?
			These so-called cultural police?
			Four.  Who determines what is black?
			Five.  Mantan is a satire.  Six.
			If they can't take a joke, "F" 'em.


			We all stick to this, it's smooth
			sailing.


			It sounds kinda simplistic to me.


			I've done my research.


			These are black folks we're talkin'
			about, not some lab mice in a cage.


			Monsieur Delacroix, I got my PhD in
			African-American studies from Yale,
			so I do feel I'm qualified.


			Let Myrna finish.


			Thank you.  And always smile.


			Yeah, show dem pearly whites.

She ignores him.


			Wear Kente cloth, invoke the name
			of Dr. Martin Luther King, use the
			word "community" often when talking
			about Mantan.  And finally our
			biggest plus is you, Pierre
			Delacroix.


			Me?





			Yes you!


			This show was created, conceived by
			you, a non-threatening African-
			American male.  Voila.  End of
			argument.  It can't be racist
			because you're black.


			I'm not black.  I'm a NEGRO!!!



Sloan and Delacroix are walking in the hallway.  They keep
getting interrupted by people who congratulate Delacroix on
the success of the show.


			So you have your small victory, now
			what?


			A small victory isn't that small
			when you've been use to losing.



Sloan hands Delacroix a wrapped gift.


			What is this?


			A gift.


			For what?


			No matter what you think, you did
			come up with something unique.
			Open it.

Delacroix opens his gift.  It is one of those old cast iron
Black Collectibles.  This one is called "THE JOLLY NIGGER
BANK," a head of a Negro, big lips, big nose, wide eyes.


			Put a coin in the hand.

He puts a quarter in the hand.





			Watch this.

She pushes the lever and the mouth opens, the quarter flies
in and his eyes go to the top of his head.


			Read it on the back.

Delacroix reads.


			The Jolly Nigger Bank.


			This is authentic, not a repro,
			circa turn of the century.


			Thanks.


			I thought it was appropiate.


			Is that good or bad?


			It's all good.  You got a hit show,
			you're gonna need a bank.  Plus, I
			love these old black collectibles.


			How so?


			To me, it shows part of our history
			in this country, a time when we
			were considered inferior, sub-human.



Delacroix puts another quarter in the hand and flips the
lever.  The quarter flies into his mouth as his eyes roll to
the top of his head.



Delacroix is a guest on the GARY BYRD show.  WLIB is the
number one black talk radio station in the nation.





			Our guest today is Pierre Delacroix.
			He is the creator of the highly
			controversial TV show MANTAN.
			Let's get right into it.  You have
			been called by some in the community
			a traitor, a sellout, an Uncle Tom.
			Why does your show generate such
			feelings?


			Because race has always been a
			sensitive issue in this country.
			Gary, I have no problem with people
			disagreeing with the show, it's
			when folks start trying to mess
			with my inherent right as an
			artist, that's when I get mad.  No
			one, in any way, shape or form
			should be censored.


			No matter how sexist or racist the
			material may be?


			Yes.  And I say yes because who is
			to judge?  Who is to stand before
			us and say this is righteous and
			this is not?  Who?  Who can play God?


			But the line has to be drawn.


			Don't you people get it?  We're in
			the 21st Century.  Slavery was over
			four hundred years ago.  All that
			stuff people talked in the old
			days, it's over.  Folks always
			crying, white man this, white man
			that.  Let's all grow up.


			Are you trying to excuse our
			Holocaust?


			Can I finish?  Thank you.  I had a
			great Aunt, we called her Sister.
			She went to her grave not believing
			man had walked on the Moon.






			When I was a little kid, I would
			argue with her, "it's on TV."  She
			would answer "I don't care what's
			on that idiot box.  No MAN is on
			the MOON."  Well, there are a lot
			of your Negroes just like my Aunt
			Sister.  Face up to it.  The world
			has changed and if you don't adapt,
			change with it, you will be left
			behind.  This show is a parody.
			Are you telling me that nobody can
			use some humor, have some laughs in
			their lives?  Is that what you're
			telling me?



Mantan and Cheeba gaze skyward at a behemoth billboard for
their show.  Some people recognize them and start asking for
autographs and a crowd forms.



They're enjoying the adulation.



Big Black and the Mau-Mau's also look up at the 2 REAL COONS
billboard.  Their faces say they are not happy.







It blows majestically in the wind.


			When American people want something,
			they want it now, they want it big.



Kids swinging in their hula hoops.


			They wanted the hula hoop...



Kids playing with their yo-yo's.





			They wanted their yo-yo's.



A young girl petting her Pet Rock.


			Who could ever forget those lovable
			pet rocks.





Parents are fighting over Beanie Babies.  It's a RUCKUS.


			Beanie Babies...



Mantan and Sleep 'N Eat are doing a tap dance on the GIANT



			Now the latest, hottest, newest
			sensation across the nation was...








We SEE AMERICANS - young, old, black and white in BLACKFACE.
MANTAN and SLEEP 'N EAT are #1 and #2 in the best-selling
Halloween masks.  They fly out of the stores.  We SEE Mantan
and Sleep 'N Eat THE DUSKY DUO Action Dolls, backpacks,
lunch boxes, T-shirts, jackets, board games, watches, and
CD-Rom video games.  Football players, wrestlers in black
face also.


			It was the rage.



Big Black stands behind 1/16th Black who sits in front of a
laptop computer.





			Big Black, I can't log on the
			Mantan Website now, it's overloaded.


			The Mantan - The New Millennium
			Minstrel Show at www.nigger.com was
			getting 500,000 hits a day.


			Keep trying.


			I'm on it.



A Mercedes-Benz salesman is showing Mantan all the newest,
latest models.



Mantan and Cheeba sit at a big table with Puff Daddy, Andre
Harrell, Russell Simmons and other assorted RAPPERS.
Everyone is drinking that DOM P.  Buxom Hotties sit in
between the BIG WILLIES.



A group of protesters led by the REVEREND JESSE JACKSON and
AL SHARPTON carry signs and banners objecting to Mantan.
They're calling upon the FCC to pull the show off the air
and for the boycotting of the show's two sponsors: TIMMI
HILLNIGGER and DA BOMB MALT LIQUOR.



The press is watching.



Delacroix has now decorated his entire office with Black
Collectibles Art.  WE SEE black jockey lawn pieces, banks,
mammies, signs for products, etc.



Delacroix and Mantan are looking out the office window down
on the protesters.


			Why is Jess and Reverend Al down
			there?





			So they can be on TV.


			You sound like the media.


			This is nothing.  It will blow over
			by tomorrow.


			Same thing Giuliani said.


			Tomorrow it will be all about
			cruelty to animals or some sex
			scandal.  Besides, there is no such
			thing as bad publicity.

He hands Mantan a wrapped gift.


			Rest your mind.  It's a little
			somethin' something.

Mantan opens it.  He pulls out an old pair of tap shoes.


			Those were the last pair of tap
			shoes worn by Bill "Bojangles"
			Robinson.  In fact, he died with
			them on.

Mantan starts to laugh.


			No joke.  Serious.


			Hope the same thing doesn't happen
			to me.  That's some big shoes to
			fill.


			In time.



The Mau-Mau's are in meeting.  They all drink 64 ounce
jugulars of Da Bomb, are all attired from head to toe in
TIMMI HILLNIGGER Active Ghetto Wear and brandish their 9's.


			That Tom, That Negro...





			...that handkerchief head...


			...dancing monkey...


			...Benedict Arnold...


			...that simpleton is holding back
			the race.  They got rid of us and
			keep those two buffoons, Mantan and
			Sleep 'N Eat, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?


			Yo, Big Black, Sleep 'N Eat ain't
			even a nigger, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?


			He's Mexican, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?


			He's Dominican, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?


			He's Peter Rican,
			y'knowwhatI'msayin'?


			Same thing, y'knowwhatI'msayin',
			y'knowwhatI'msayin'!


			We know.  We know.  Yo, check it,
			my black brothers, we can't let
			this slide.  Not this injustice.
			Nah, no way.  Dem' two real coons
			iz ill.


			1/16, tru' 'dat.  True 'dat.


			Let me gat him.


			Nah, too easy, this has to be
			symbolic, has to be on the world
			stage.



Mantan is showing Sloan his new residence.





			This is a nice place.  It must have
			cost a pretty penny.


			Sloan, I got it like 'dat.


			Oh you do, huh?


			Just a little something' somethin'.


			I hope you save a little somethin'
			somethin'.


			Gots no intention of ending up broke.


			Y'know, at the beginnin' of the
			century, African-American had to
			perform in blackface.  You ever
			heard of Bert Williams?  He was a
			great artist.


			No, before my time.


			You don't read, do you?


			Never read a book in my whole life.


			Maybe you need to start.


			Maybe I need to do a lot of things.


			Bert Williams and the rest, they
			had to black up.  They had no
			choice.  They were considered
			3/5ths of a human being.  Did you
			know that's written in the
			Constitution of the United States?





			Why all of a sudden are you flippin'
			on me?  This blackface thing was
			part of the deal from the git-go.
			Don't even try to play it like you
			ain't a part of all this.  You down
			with Delacroix.


			I just don't want you and Cheeba to
			get hurt.


			We can look out for ourselves.



Sleep 'N Eat is applying his black face.



Mantan also puts on his mask.






			Let's have a warm nigger applause
			for our two favorite coons, Mantan
			and Sleep 'N Eat.  TWO REAL COONS!



The entire audience is in BLACK FACE.  They applaud, yell,
cheer wildly.  This is becoming a religious cult.



The curtain rises on Mantan and Sleep 'N Eat.  They are in a
cotton field.


			I fell out of my bed last night.


			You slept too near where you got in?


			I slept too near where I fell out.


			You expect the unexpected in
			circumstances of that peculiarity.





			Sleep 'N Eat, what's the matter
			with you?  Using all dose ten
			dollar words?


			Mantan, it is possible that my
			hyphenated sentences are entirely
			too complex for all the intellect
			contained in that diminutive coconut?


			Hold on, you allegorical hypothesis.
			Don't cross words with me.


			Ain't Jemima on the pancake box?


			Dat's yo Uncle Ben.  That reminds
			me, I've seen a lot of troubles
			lately.


			How be dat?


			I don't know who I am.


			Well, I'll be an Alabama porch
			monkey's uncle.


			Years ago I married a widow who had
			a grown-up daughter.  My daddy
			visited us often, fell in love with
			my stepdaughter and married her.
			Thusly he became my son-in-law and
			my stepdaughter became my mother
			because she was my father's wife.
			Soon after dis my wife gave birth
			to a son, which of course was my
			father's brother in-law and my
			uncle, for he was the brother of my
			step-mother.  My father's wife also
			became the mother of a son.  He was
			of course my brother and also my
			grandchild for he was the son of my
			daughter.  Accordingly, my wife was
			my grandmother because she was my
			mother's mother.






			Sleep 'N Eat, I was my wife's
			husband and grandchild at one and
			the same time.  And lo' and behold,
			as the husband of a person's
			grandmother is his grandfather, I
			Mantan, became my own grandfather.


			Mantan, dat sho' is a whopper.

They both start to do the jig.



Delacroix is dying laughing.


			You couldn't hold out any longer,
			huh?



She looks at Delacroix, her face tells us she's not amused
at all.



The Dusky Duo is joined on the cotton patch by Snowflake,
Rastus, Sambo, Nigga Jim, Jungle Bunny, Aunt Jemima, And the
Porch Monkeys Band.


			I feel a song a comin' on.


			A song a comin' I feel.

The Porch Monkeys kick in and Mantan sings.


			I fell right dead in love/wid da
			sweetest little dove/little LuLu
			Snow from Tennessee/she made a
			slave of me/an' from her I'se never
			free/I'd do anything she'd ask me
			to...

Sleep 'N Eat takes over.





			De money I did save/to dat yeller
			gal I gave/for to keep till we was
			wed/she told me dat nobody'd get
			away dat cash/I'll take good care
			of date, she said.

Everybody joins in for the chorus.


			She's de cutest gal in all dis
			world I know/If you met her you
			would say it so/Oh, Lulu, Lulu,
			ev'ry day I pines for you/no other
			gal will do/All I've got is yours
			for life, my little, my little
			yaller Lou/A week ago dat Lou wid
			anudder nigger flew/took ma money
			too, all I had/She broke ma heart
			in two/when I heard dat she had
			flew/Do you wonder dat I feel so
			bad?/She told me not to cry 'case
			she didn't say good bye/but she'd
			take care of dat red/and nobody
			would get de cash away from
			her/She'd keep her word to me she
			said.



The Mau-Mau clan surrounds the television monitor, howling
in disgust.


			He gots to be did.


			Did he gots to be.



Delacroix is leading the meeting of the staff writers on
Mantan.


			To my astonishment, not only did
			the people in TV land love us, but
			also the critics.







			Mantan was being hailed as
			groundbreaking, barrier breaking,
			also earth shaking.  I looked
			forward to my awards.  Just
			vindication for all my hard work,
			all my talent that had been
			previously overlooked.



Delacroix sits in tux amongst many stars.


			The winner for Best New Sitcom is...
			The envelope please...

A starlet hands him the envelope.


			The winner is... Pierre Delacroix
			for Mantan - The New Millennium
			Minstrel Show!

Delacroix jumps out og his chair and starts sobbing.  Two
ushers have to help him to the stage.  He is overcome with
emotion.  The audience is on their feet with a standing
ovation.  He hugs Alec Baldwin.


			Alec Baldwin, this is the very
			first time we've ever met, you
			don't know this, I'm your biggest
			fan and I want you to have my Emmy.
			It's for you, out of the deep
			bowels of my heart - I don't
			deserve this.  You take it.

Alec Baldwin is shocked.  He grabs Delacroix in a bear hug
and they both cry like babies.


			If I did that I'd be assured to
			work forever.  Delacroix the
			grateful Negro.



Delacroix sits at a table in his lucky tux.


			The winner for Best Sit-Com is...




Woody opens the envelope.


			...Pierre Delacroix for Mantan.
			Come on up and get your Golden Globe.

Delacroix jumps out of his seat and sprints.  He gets down
on the stage and starts to breakdance, even spinning on his
head.


			That routine would go over like
			gangbusters.  I would be a dancing
			fool, Hollywood's new favorite
			Negro, move over Danny, Morgan,
			Samuel L., move over Whoopi.



Delacroix is finishing up the meeting.


			I had it all planned.  To the T.



Mantan is running rigorous rehearsal of The Pikaninnies.
Over and over, repetition after repetition, Snowflake,
Rastus, Sambo, Nigger Jim, Jungle Bunny and Aunt Jemima try
to do an intricate dance step.


			I'm tired of you pickaninnies
			messing up my choreography.  It
			goes like this.

Mantan does the step with ease.


			Try it again.

The dancers do it once more.


			Better.

Cheeba walks in.  Mantan checks him out.


			Let's take a ten minute break.

They quickly file past Cheeba without saying a word.  The
rehearsal space is just the two.





			I'm not drinking the Kool-Aid.


			What are you talkin' about?


			Jim Jones, y'know.  I'm not drinking
			the Kool-Aid.


			Meaning?


			I'm out.


			Good.  I've got a broken back from
			carrying you all these years anyway.


			So that's what you been doing?


			Damn skippy.


			You're in this up till ya neck.


			Don't shoot me, I'm just the piano
			players.


			You can walk away.  We both can.


			Yeah, that's easy for you to do.
			You never had any talent.


			I'm so tired of you running that.
			I always worked hard for you.  You
			think I'm a leech, a kling-on, I
			quit.

Cheeba walks out.


			I'm the star of Mantan, so you do
			that.  Quit, walk away.  And don't
			come crawling back, either.






Mantan and Sloan ride in back.  He's still thinking about
Cheeba.


			Why don't you call him?


			For what?  He left.  Not me.



The limo drives past the World Famous Apollo Theatre in
Harlem, a big crowd is in front.



It READS: MANTAN THE MARVELOUS



It's an unruly, fired up crowd that can be heard all the way
back here.


			You're sure this is a good idea.


			My people love me.

He kisses her, she doesn't resist.


			I love you.

After a long, deep kiss she gently pulls back.


			I'll be down front.  You better
			start putting your face on.


			Y'know what?


			What?


			You look beautiful like that.



Sloan takes a seat down front.






Mantan, face already done, puts on the firetruck red lipstick.



Sloan is looking around this boisterous crowd when she sees



In one of the side boxes.



He waves to his sister.



She knows her brother and his clan are up to no good as the
house lights go black.



Honeycutt walks out on stage.  The audience goes crazy.


			Thank you so very much.  Show me
			some love.

He laughs.


			Thank you.  My name is Honeycutt
			and I want to welcome you to a very
			special evening.  It's always great
			coming back to the World Famous
			Apollo Theatre.

The audience applauds.


			As everybody knows if you can make
			it here on this stage in front of
			the most discriminating audience in
			the world you can make it anywhere.
			Ladies and gentlemen, let's show
			some real Uptown love for Mantan
			The Marvelous!

The curtain goes up and Mantan the Marvelous stands there,
arms raised.  He starts to do his thing.






Led by Big Black, they start shouting insults at Mantan.



Mantan is a pro, he doesn't stop.  In fact, this makes him
dance harder and harder.



She leaves her seat and goes to stop her brother.



Mantan is moving and grooving.  The unrest in the audience
has picked up.



They start to "boo."  The tide has turned.  Encouraged, the
Mau-Mau's pick it up another notch.



He's human after all, and he does hear the boos.  Don't let
those athletes in the papers fool you.  You hear the boos
and nobody, nobody except Dennis Rodman likes to be booed.
Mantan is getting rattled.



Sloan rushes into the box and they are quiet.  They don't
have to say or shout a thing.  The rough Apollo crowd is
doing it all themselves.



The sister and big brother look at each other.  There is no
love between them.


			This doesn't change a thing.  I
			will still love him.

Big Black can't believe what he has just heard.



Now projectiles are raining down upon Mantan.  This has
turned into a RUCKUS, a BROUHAHA, a DONNYBROOK.  Honeycutt
races onto the stage to pull off the still tap dancing
Mantan as the Harlem natives BUMRUSH the stage.  THE WORM







Mantan, led by Honeycutt, runs for his life.



They chase him.



Mantan is hauling ass.



The door crashes open, Mantan rockets out into an open car
door.



The door slams.



The car spins away.



Delacroix is behind the wheel.  This is the most shaken
we've seen Mantan to date.


			Pull ya self together.

Mantan is distraught.


			What are you?  A man or a mouse?
			Are you a punk?  Punking out on me?


			No.


			You getting scared because some
			people don't like what you are doing?


			Yo, DeLa, they tried to lynch my
			black ass up in dat piece.





			You've made it from the guttermost
			to the uppermost.  Don't you know
			you should never let them see you
			sweat.  Y'knowwhatI'msayin'?


			Yeah.


			And now is definitely not the time
			to bitch up.



Delacroix speeds away.



Mantan is on the BET show with host TAVIS SMILEY.


			Our guest tonight is the
			extraordinary, talented performer,
			Mantan.  Thanks for coming in.


			Tavis, thank you for having me.


			Before we begin, I want to thank
			you for coming on my show for your
			first television interview.  You
			could have chosen Mike Wallace,
			Barbara Walters, Jane Pauley,
			whatnot but you're here.


			I'm more comfortable around my
			people.


			Let's jump right into it.  Your
			show has sparked a world of
			controversy, provoked a tone of
			dialogue.  How do you see all of
			this?


			Yo, Tavis, check it out.  This is
			the two-one, the 21st century and
			it's all about the money.  Like my
			man Mase says, "it's all about the
			Benjamins."





			Money and nothing else?


			Money makes the world go round.  It
			ain't no joke being poor.  I know
			whatI'mtalkin''bout.
			Y'knowwhatI'msayin'?  I've lived on
			the street.  I've been homeless.
			I've learned how to play the game,
			work the game, be in the game.


			Is it inevitable that the game
			plays you?


			No if you go with the flow, Tavis.
			That's what a lot of Negroes don't
			understand.  Protesting isn't gonna
			do a damn thing.  If people don't
			like our satire in our number one
			hit show then don't watch it.  Or
			better yet write your own show.  Do
			it better.


			Don't you feel that is a simplistic
			retort?


			I don't know what a retort is, but
			it's simple.  Mantan - The New
			Millennium Minstrel Show is
			UNIVERSAL.  It's not just for
			Negroes in Compton or 125th in
			Harlem.  This is America.  Our
			ancestors helped build this country,
			we got a right, just like everybody
			else.  I'm not gonna box myself in.
			This show makes people think, and
			they're laughing at the same time.


			I admit, that's a very hard thing
			to do.  Quickly let's go to the
			phones before we pay the bills and
			hear from our proud sponsors, DA











			Our first caller is Big Black from
			Brooklyn.  Go 'head.




			Microphone check, one, two.  One,
			two.  Yo Tavis, I be lovin' yo show
			but Mantan you is foul.  Why you
			perpetrating?  You a sellout.


			That's our opinion.


			You're a traitor to the race.  A
			tool for the Caucasoids.


			Why?  Because I'm successful?
			Because I don't use "Causcasoids"
			as an excuse for not fulfilling my
			dreams?


			I ain't hearing all dat noise.  You
			getting played and you don't even
			know it.


			And Big Black from Brooklyn, what
			do you do?


			What do I do?


			What do you do?


			I'm a revolutionary.


			That's a job?


			That's a full time job, especially
			when sellouts like you are running
			around, acting insane.


			That's enough.





			And another thing, you better stay
			away from my sister or you better...




			Ladies and gentlemen, there is no
			need to go there.  We can all agree
			to disagree without making threats.



Sloan turns off the TV.


			Why'd you do that?


			I don't want to hear it.


			How long have you and Hambone been
			hangin' out?


			You're the one that put us together.
			We're friends.


			That crazy brother of yours doesn't
			think so.


			He's just playing big brother.


			Oh, is he?  You getting jiggy with
			Mantan?


			Please don't go there.


			Dunwitty and I feel you've been
			getting too close to him, getting
			his mind all messed up.


			I can't lie to him.  If he asks me
			something, I tell him what I think.


			Do you have to be so damn forthright?





			DeLa, you should try it sometime.
			Come into the light.


			Light?


			That which has been hidden in
			darkness is now in the light.  This
			bucket of blood.


			You can talk all that mumbo jumbo
			if you want to but your hands are
			much bloody.  I know where I made
			my big mistake.  I have a general
			rule, never get involved
			romantically with somebody crazier
			than you.





Delacroix and Sloan are taking off their clothes.


			This is crazy.


			That's why it will be so much fun.

They kiss, fall half undressed upon the motel bed.






			That was a mistake, but I don't
			regret it.


			The first and only time.  A big
			mistake.  I'm gonna have to ask you
			not to see Mantan anymore.


			Work related or otherwise?





			Otherwise.  I trust you know the
			difference.  You're an intelligent
			woman, finished at NYU.


			DeLa, kiss my big black ass.


			And that's how you got me in the
			first place.

Sloan pulls a 3/4 inch cassette out of her bag and hands it
to him.


			I want you to please view this.  It
			may save your Life.



Mantan and Delacroix are in the middle of a heated discussion.


			You shouldn't even be mad at me
			over Sloan.


			What you did is dead wrong.


			Oh, is it?  Buddy boy, in this
			business if people don't produce,
			they get fired.


			Sloan is the hardest working person
			I've ever met.


			Let me ask you a question, if I may.
			How do you think she got the job in
			the first place?  I don't mean to
			burst your bubble, Mantan the
			Marvelous, but Sloan is an
			opportunity.


			I don't believe it.


			Do I have to spell it out for you?
			In fact, go ask Sloan yourself.






Mantan is grilling Sloan.


			How did you get this gig?


			Worked my black ass off, first as
			an intern, then worked my way up to
			this position.


			You leave something out?


			After my internship expired, Dela
			was impressed and offered me a
			position as his assistant.


			And?


			And what?


			Stop playing me Sloan.


			Just ask me what you want to know.


			Oh, you gonna make me say it.


			Say what, Manray?


			Did you ever sleep with DeLa?


			We did it one time, only once.  It
			had nothing to do with the job, it
			was stupid.  Everything I've got
			I've earned.


			Aw, c'mon.


			That's ancient history.  That has
			nothing to do with you and I.





			So you say.  Sloan, you wuz gonna
			use me up just like you used Dela?
			Work it to the top.  I never
			imagined people in this biz could
			flip on you like "IHOP."  I'm damn
			happy DeLa fired ya ass.


			Forget about me, are you a puppet
			for DeLa?


			Don't try to change to the subject.


			Why don't you answer?


			I know I won't be your puppet.


			You can go now.


			I wuz leaving anyway, for good.



As usual, the clan is smoking and drinking DA BOMB, a thick
marijuana haze hangs over the studio.


			Yo, I got da bomb plan.  We gonna
			hook homeslice Mantan up nicely.

He holds up a floppy disk.



Delacroix sits behind the desk.  He's bought even more Black
Collectibles, he's surrounded by them.



He dials the phone.


			Hello, Mommy, how are you?





			I'm doing okay.  Been reading about
			your show, it's all over everywhere.
			I watched it's all over everywhere.
			I watched it once.  I thought you
			said there would be no buffoonery.


			You going to attack me too.  The
			show is a hit.  Aren't you happy
			for me?




			Of course I'm happy for you.
			You've worked very hard for your
			success.


			Yes I have, very hard.  Has Daddy
			called?


			No.




			Not at all?


			You know how your Daddy is.


			If and when he calls, please don't
			forget to ask him if he's seen
			Mantan.


			I won't forget.  When are you
			coming up here to see your mother?


			Soon.

Delacroix hangs up the phone.  He takes out some change from
his pocket and puts a quarter in the hand of his Jolly
Nigger Bank.



Delacroix flips the lever and the quarter flies into the
MOUTH as the EYES roll to the top of its HEAD.




Delacroix does this several times.  CLOSEUPS of the BLACK
COLLECTIBLES in the office.



Delacroix is staring at the JNB when its MOUTH OPENS, a
quarter flies in and its EYES roll to the top of its HEAD.



He is incredulous.


			When I thought or imagined that my
			favorite Jolly Nigger Bank, an
			inanimate object, a piece of cold,
			cast iron, was moving by itself...

Delacroix slowly, carefully approaches the bank and picks it
off the table.


			...I knew I was getting paranoid.
			Did I really see what I saw or was
			I buggin'?



It's stopped moving.



Honeycutt is warming up the crazed "Black Face"-wearing
audience.  He points to a YOUNG WHITE MALE, BOBBY


			Is you a nigga?


			Hell yeah, I'm a nigga.

The AUDIENCE CHEERS WILDLY.  Honeycutt points to an old
WHITE LADY, LOUISE, a senior citizen.


			Ma'am, is you a nigga?


			Yesiree Bob, you darn tootin' I'm a
			nigger.

The AUDIENCE loses it as Honeycutt hugs Louise as if she's a
grandmother.






Mantan looks up at his makeup laid out before him on the
counter.



He stares at himself in the dressing room mirror.  Mantan
can't stand to BLACK UP anymore.



Honeycutt stands next to a young black couple TRE and STACY.


			Are you a nigger?


			Yo!


			Are you a nigga?


			Honeycutt, I'm a really real
			niggress.

Stacy gets a standing ovation.


			You.  You.  Him.  Her.  We're all
			God's niggas.  Even the lost souls
			who don't know it are niggas cuz
			niggas is a beautiful thing.



As Mantan walks down the hallway WE NOTICE he is not dressed
in his costume and he has no BLACK FACE on.



A Worker is painting over Sleep 'N Eat's name on the door
and replacing it with HONEYCUTT


			They don't waste any time, do they?



The phone rings next to Delacroix and he answers.





			Delacroix.  What?!  I'll be right
			down.

Dunwitty looks at him.



Delacroix is met by BUNNING, the STAGE MANAGER.


			You better talk to him.  He won't
			listen to me.

Delacroix walks over to Mantan who stands in a corner.


			Mantan, we got a show to tape.


			My name is Manray, goddamnit.


			Kook and the Gang, it's Manray.
			Let's do the taping.  You go back
			to your dressing room, get dressed
			and blacken up.


			I'm not playin' myself no mo'.


			How you sound?


			I won't do it anymore.


			Manray, I'm very sorry about ya boy
			Cheeba and Sloan.  Believe me, it
			gave me no joy pulling ya coattail
			about her, just lookin' out for a
			brother.  I feel you, all this
			stuff happenin' at once but you
			can't let if affect your work.  You
			gotta be professional.


			I'm always gonna be that.  But I
			ain't doing no more buck dancing.


			No costume.  No blackface.





			No.  No.

Manray leads the way to the stage.


			I should notify Dunwitty.


			And I should put my foot dead up in
			yo' ass.


			I won't be held responsible.



Honeycutt stands in front of the drawn curtain.


			We apologize for the holdup but
			without further delay, ladies and
			gentlemen, boys and girls, let's
			give it up for Mantan.




			C'mon, don't be niggardly, give it
			up.  Show Mantan some love.

The CURTAIN RISES and MANRAY stands before them in his
regular street clothes and NO BLACK FACE.



The THUNDEROUS ROAR is CUT OFF LIKE the LIGHTS, LIKE CON




Dunwitty is HYSTERICAL.


			Stop the tape.  Stop the tape.
			Delacroix.  Get me Delacroix.



Manray speaks to the silence.





			Cousins, I want all of you to go to
			your windows.  Go to your windows
			and yell, scream with all the life
			you can muster up inside your
			assaulted, bruised amd battered
			bodies.




			I'm sick and tired of being a
			nigger and I'm not gonna take it
			anymore.



Black and white.  Male and female.  Young and old.  All in
black face.



He collapses onto the stage and the AUDIENCE sits on their
hands.  Manray gets up and begins to dance.



Dunwitty runs to Bunning.


			Drop the curtain.  Drop the curtain.

Bunning drops the curtain.  Security rushes onto the stage
and grabs Manray.


			Escort him out the building now!


			I wasn't finished doing my dance.


			But you are finished.  Done.
			Nigga's like you are a dime a dozen.
			I'm gonna slide Honeycutt right
			into ya spot.  We won't miss a step.
			Get him outta here.

The security guards move Manray as Dunitty glares at
Delacroix.  Honeycutt is all smiles, he's being bumped to
the top.


			DeLa, I'll deal with you next.






The security guards toss Manray out the stage door.  Manray
looks down the alley and it's empty except for a parked SUV.
He picks himself up and does a joyous dance.  This is
Manray's dance of Freedom.



The Big Black Chevy Suburban creeps down the alley to a
dancing Manray and comes to rest right in front of him.
Manray tries to shield his eyes from the hi-beam headlights.


			Whaddup?

No one comes out.


			Whaddup?

The doors open and the Mau-Mau's file out.


			You truly are a dancing fool.


			Yo Black, you looking for trouble.


			Don't start none, won't be none.

The Mau-Mau's are dying laughing.  Manray tries to walk
through them.  They block him.  Manray attempts to climb
over the suburban.  He's quickly nabbed, give a good ole
Brooklyn Beatdown, then thrown into the rear of the vehicle.



The Mau-Mau Mobile rolls up to an abandoned factory.



The Mau-Mau's quickly carry Manray out from the back of the
vehicle into the factory.



Manray sits, feet and hands tied, in the middle of a
cavernous space.  A digital video camera stands on a tripod
in front of him.


			You is one dead nigger.





			What did I do?


			What did you do?

The Mau-Mau's laugh.


			Brothers, he asks what did he do?


			If you don't know there is nuthin'
			we can do for you.


			Nigga, you will be executed.



His face says he can't believe this is happening.


			For singing and dancing?


			You will be done in front of the
			world.


			The whole world will be watching.


			Via the internet.


			The Mau-Mau's had come up with a
			brilliant, sadistic plan to
			broadcast Mantan's execution LIVE
			over the internet.


			We have pirated broadcasting
			facilities.  No way we can be found
			out.  We're in cyberspace.


			Nobody will find you till it's too
			late.



Various newsrooms, computer screens, people running,
shouting, yelling over phones.





			The Mau-Mau's sent anonymous e-mail
			proclamations to the websites of
			CNN, ABC, MSNBC and CBS.  It was an
			invite to witness the Dance of
			Death, 9 PM, prime time, tomorrow
			night on a site to be designated at
			a later date.



Delacroix and Cheeba are being interrogated in two adjoining
spaces.  WE ARE seeing them through the two-way mirrors.


			It's no joke getting grilled by the
			FBI for five houts.

Delacroix SCREAMS.


			I don't know anything.


			We know you're involved in this
			abduction.




			You know more than me.  Why would I
			do something like that to my best
			friend?  Why?


			You tell us.



It's a mob scene as the media frenzy heightens.  Delacroix
and Cheeba try to fight their way through the print and
broadcast journalists trying to question them as they leave
FBI headquarters.


			Somehow, someway, somebody had
			tipped the sharks off.  It was a
			feeding frenzy.

Delacroix and Cheeba start pushing people out of the way as
they get in to their waiting car.






There is a flurry of activity - people man phones, computers
all HI-TECH.


			The X-Force was brought onto the
			case.  When something involves the
			internet, these are the people IBM,
			XEROX, the CIA, FBI, even the US
			Government go to.



It reads "T-minus 19 HOURS 22 MINUTES."


			It was a race against time.  The
			Dance of Death.



Dunwitty is taping a spot.


			Hello, my name is Thomas Dunwitty.
			I'm the Senior V.P. of the
			entertainment division here at CNS.
			I come to you with a heavy heart.



She's watching Dunwitty on TV.


			This abduction is a cowardly, vile,
			sinful and dastardly act and I
			promise these creeps will be
			prosecuted to the fullest extent of
			the law.  This is an attack on your
			American way of life...



He's watching the same.


			We here at CNS are offering a
			$100,000 cash award to any
			information that leads to the safe
			return home of our dear friend,
			Mantan.









			Help us and in addition you will
			get a guest-starring speaking role
			on the next Mantan - The New
			Millennium Minstrel Show, plus an
			added bonus: a lifetime of Da Bomb
			125% Malt Liquor.  Let's you get ya
			"freak on", as well as a full
			wardrobe of Timmi Hillnigger Active
			Git Toe Wear.  Mantan, may God
			bless you...



Delacroix and Sloan hurry to stay with BARNETT, he's the
commander of the X-Force.


			Let's go, time's wasting.



They follow Barnett into the war room.


			They sent the notice out on an
			anonymous remailer.


			A what?


			It's used to mask the origin of an
			email, also the computer from which
			it's sent.


			There oughta be a law...


			Not yet, anyway, it's legal.  We
			will find the source where it's
			being broadcasted and hosted.
			We'll get the people that
			bushwhacked Mantan.


			Before Manray is dead?





			I can't answer that.



It reads "6 HOURS 16 MINUTES."



Police squads, SWAT Teams are busting into the wrong homes,
apartments, projects, hi-tech computer labs looking for the
Mau-Mau's.


			SWAT teams all up and down the East
			Coast busted in on known dissidents
			looking for Manray.  All the tips
			called in, info gathered through
			surveillance proved for naught.




			The both of you should go home.  We
			will keep you abreast.


			This is looking like a needle in a
			haystack.  It's hopeless.

Delacroix holds Sloan as he leads her out.  She is having
difficulty breathing with her asthma.


			Thank you for your help.


			The X-Force always gets their man.



He sits in front of his GIANT SCREEN, on the desk in front
of him is the 3/4 inch cassette Sloan gave him.  He picks it
up and turns it on.


			It was ten o'clock and the Dance of
			Death was about to commence.







			Since a lot of people still didn't
			have computers, the networks sought
			a court order to carry it live,
			taking the feed off the internet.
			It was granted.  A life snuff
			broadcast right into your living
			room.




			I had to give it to the Mau-Mau',
			they definitely had a sense of
			irony.  They chose www.nigger.com
			as the website to pirate.



The Mau-Mau's ironically wear WHITE MASKS, they stand behind
the tied-up Mantan.  A device alters their voices.


			We are LIVE on the cyberspace.
			Whereas Mantan is a TOM...


			Whereas Mantan is a disgrace...


			Whereas Mantan is a head-scratching,
			foot-shuffling Negro...


			Whereas, whereas, where's the ass?

The Mau-Mau's laugh.


			Whereas Mantan the dancing fool,
			you are condemned to death.


			The Dance of Death.

1/16th Black unties Manray.












We see a CARTOON, Yosemite Sam is shooting at the feet of
Bugs Bunny with his six-shooter in each hand.  Bugs Bunny is
doing a fast dance, dodging bullets.



The Mau-Mau's shoot at the feet of Manray.


			Dance nigger.

Manray taps.


			You got anything to say for yourself?


			If you're gonna kill me, kill me.


			Don't worry.



She is having an asthma attack, it was brought on by the
proceedings.  Sloan uses her inhaler.



Each Mau-Mau has a 9mm and is firing it at the feet of
Manray.  They scream "Faster!" and "Dance!" Manray is
hoofing.  He's never tapped this fast, at this breakneck
pace, ever.  But it's evident his dance is one of defiance.
He's not dancing to stay alive.



He screams at the monitor.


			Don't dance.  Don't do it.



The Mau-Mau's have noticed Manray's strong will, his pride
and they don't like it.  They shoot even more at his feet.


			You ain't Blak.


			Blak you ain't.





			You a Oreo.  Not Blak.  Not BLAK.

The Mau-Mau's start to chant, "Blak, blak, blak."



She hears this and quickly picks up the phone to call the
authorities.




			There is nothing you can do to me.
			I'm wearing the taps of Bill
			"Bojangles" Robinson.

Manray is shot in one foot.  Then the other.


			Let's seeya dance now, Mr. Bojangles.

Manray somehow manages to right himself and starts to dance
again.  The Mau-Mau's can't believe it.



He dances like his life depends on it.  Despite the fact his
feet are a bloody mess.


			You ain' BLAK.

He shoots Manray in the chest, the Mau-Mau's follow him and
he does a spastic last jig as the 9mm bullets riddle his
twitching body.



It goes black.



Helicopters fly through the night sky.  Cop cars and trucks,
SWAT team vehicles are on the move.  SIRENS BLARE.



Delacroix's head is on his desk.  He has been crying.  On
cue the Black Collectibles start to move.  The Jolly Nigger
Bank, Aunt Jemima's, Mammies, etc., they are animated for







His head pops up as he sees the objects.  He too is in
BLACKFACE.  In a rage, he starts to throw them against the
wall.


			Leave me alone.  Get away from me.
			You spearchucker.  You black sambo.
			You nigger pickaninny.  Fat Mammie.

Delacroix has finally lost it.  He looks at the shambles
he's made of his office.



The Mau-Mau's come out of the factory high as a kite.  Each
has a big fat joint or a 64 oz. of DA BOMB.  They're also
doing a free-style rap about their execution.



They get in when the squak of police walkie-talkie's clicks.


			It's the man!

What follows is a horrifying display of firepower.  All the
Mau-Mau's bodies are doing the Bonnie and Clyde Sonny
Corleone Dance of Death as bullets tear into them and the
Suburban.  Not one of them is able to get a shot off.  The
shooting stops.  The twitching stops.  All's quiet.  1/16th
Black comes out with his hands up.


			Don't shoot!  Don't shoot!  I've
			been held hostage.  They made me
			part of them against my own free
			will.  Don't shoot!

The cops quickly pounce on 1/16th Black.


			I'm WHITE.  I'm WHITE!  Look at me,
			I'm white!



Delacroix is on the floor when the doorknob turns.  It's
Sloan and she has a gun in one hand and her inhaler in the
other.  She's wheezing like mad.


			Get up and put that tape in.




She points the gun at his head.


			Do what I say.

Delacroix takes the cassette tape off his desk and puts it
in the 3/4 inch desk.


			Don't make me have to use this.


			I didn't think this was in your
			studies at NYU.

Delacroix hits the PLAY button.



IMAGES.  HISTORY.  VISUALS.  Sloan has put together a tape
of the worst, most racist, stereotypical images from cinema
and TV over the last 100 years.  With these images there's
also a laugh-track.


			Watch this.  This is what you
			contributed to.  Because of you,
			Manray is dead.  Mu brother's dead.
			It's all because of you.

Delacroix can't watch the monitor.


			I'm sorry.  I didn't know anyone
			would get hurt.  I'm sorry, please
			give me that gun before you hurt
			yourself.  Give me the gun.

He reaches for it.  BOOM!  Sloan screams.


			I told you but you wouldn't listen.
			You never listened to me.


			Give me the gun.

She reluctantly hands it to him.


			Go, get out of here.  Go home.

Sloan runs out.  Delacroix slumps to the floor, WIPES HER
FINGERPRINTS off the revolver.






He looks at the monitor, the tape still playing.


			As I bled to death, as my very
			precious life oozed out of me all I
			could think of was that I never
			made my father proud.  My mother
			didn't count.



We see STEP 'N FETCHIT, MANTAN MORELAND and WILLIE BEST.


			Everything I did, no matter how
			great or small, was always
			extraordinary to her.  With Daddy
			it was a different ball game.  He
			never saw me.  Pierre Delacroix.



A pool of blood has formed around his dying body.


			Now it was time to buy the farm,
			for me to meet my maker.  Goodbye
			cousins, and please tune in next
			week for the Best of Mantan - The
			New Millennium Minstrel Show.



We see MANTAN in BLACKFACE doing his BUCKDANCE



He looks at Mantan.


			For the love of Joseph and Mary,
			what have I done?  My God, what
			have I done?!

Delacroix slumps over dead.









			You've been had.  You've been took.
			You've been led astray.  Run amok.
			You've been bamboozled.






