



                             by

                David Newman &amp; Robert Benton








Blonde, somewhat fragile, intelligent in expression.  She is
putting on make-up with intense concentration and
appreciation, applying lipstick and eye make-up.  As the
camera slowly pulls back from the closeup we see that we
have been looking into a mirror.  She is standing before the
full-length mirror in her bedroom doing her make-up.  She
overdoes it in the style of the time: rosebud mouth and so
forth.  As the film progresses her make-up will be refined
until, at the end, there is none.

The camera pulls back and continues to move very slowly
throughout the first part of this scene.  As the camera
continues to move away, we see, by degrees, that BONNIE is
naked.  Her nudity is never blatantly revealed to the
audience, but implied.  That is, she should be "covered" in
various ways from the camera's P.O.V., but the audience must
be aware of her exposure to CLYDE later in the scene.  This
is the only time in the film that she will ever be this
exposed, in all senses of the word, to the audience.  Her
attitude and appraisal of herself here are touched with
narcissism.

The bedroom itself is a second-story bedroom in a lower-
class frame house in West Dallas, Texas.  The neighborhood
is low income.  Though the room reveals its shabby
surroundings, it also reveals an attempt by BONNIE to fix it
up.  Small and corny objets d'art are all over the tops of
the bureaus, vanity tables, etc. (Little glass figurines and
porcelain statuettes and the like.)

BONNIE finishes admiring herself.  She walks from the mirror
and moves slowly across the room, the camera moving with
her, until she reaches the screened window on the opposite
wall.  The shade is up.  There are no curtains.  She looks
out the window, looking down, and the camera looks down with
her.



Over her shoulder, we see the driveway leading to the garage
connected to the house.  There is an old car parked in the
driveway, its windows open.  We see a man walking up the
driveway, somewhat furtively.  He is a rather dapper fellow,
dressed in a dark suit with a vest, a white collar, and a
straw boater.  It is CLYDE BARROW.  Obviously, he is about
to steal the car.  He looks it over, checking around him to
make sure no passers-by are coming.  He peers inside the
front window to see if the keys are in the ignition.  He
studies the dashboard.  BONNIE continues watching, silently.
Finally she calls out.





            Hey, boy!  What you doin' with my
            mama's car?



CLYDE, startled, jumps and looks to see who has caught him.
Obviously frightened, he looks up and his face freezes at
what he sees.



We now see what he is looking at: at the open window,
revealed from the waist up, is the naked BONNIE.  She looks
down, an impudent half-smile on her face.  She doesn't move
or make any attempt to cover herself.



-- whose face changes from astonishment to an answering
smile of impudence.  (Seeing what he has, he realizes that
this girl is clearly not going to scream for the police.
Already they are in a little game instigated by BONNIE,
sizing each other up, competing in a kind of playful
arrogance.  Before they speak, they have become
coconspirators.)

Close-up of BONNIE, still smiling.  Finally she speaks.


            Wait there!



Running from the window, she flings open a closet and grabs
a dress, and shoes.  She slips on the shoes, and flings the
dress on, running out the door as she does.  The camera
tracks with her, moving as fast.  As she runs down the
stairs she buttons up the dress.



She flies out the door, slamming it behind her, runs off the
porch (all this has been one continuous movement since she
left the window, in great haste) and continues quickly into
the driveway.  Four feet away from CLYDE, she stops on a
dime.  They stand there, looking at each other, smiling the
same challenge.  For a few seconds, no one speaks, then:


                   
            Ain't you ashamed?  Tryin' to steal
            an old lady's automobile.





                   
            I been thinkin' about buyin' me one.


            Bull.  You ain't got money for
            dinner, let alone buy no car.


                   (still the battle of
                   wits going on)
            Now I got enough money for cokes,
            and since it don't look like you're
            gonna invite me inside--


            You'd steal the dining room table
            if I did.


                   
            Come to town with me, then.  How'd
            that be?


                   (starting to walk
                   onto the sidewalk)
            Goin' to work anyway.



The camera tracks.  It is a hot Texas afternoon, all white
light and glare.  As they walk the block to town in this
scene, their manner of mutual impudence is still pervading.


            Goin' to work, huh?  What do you do?


            None of your business.


                   (pretending to give
                   it serious thought)
            I bet you're a...movie star!
                   
            No...A lady mechanic?...No...A
            maid?--


                   
            What do you think I am?





                   
            A waitress.


                   (slightly startled by
                   his accuracy, anxious
                   to get back now that
                   he is temporarily
                   one-up)
            What line of work are you in?  When
            you're not stealin' cars?


                   
            I tell you, I'm lookin' for suitable
            employment right at the moment.


            What did you do before?


                   
            I was in State Prison.


            State Prison?
                   



            Yeah.


                   
            Guess some little old lady wasn't
            so nice.


                   
            It was armed robbery.


                   
            My, my, the things that turn up in
            the driveway these days.

They reach the corner and turn.  They are on:



--a small-town street of barber shops, cafes, groceries, etc.
At the moment, it is deserted.  They continue walking down
the empty street.  CLYDE looks the place over.  Tracking.





            What do y'all do for a good time
            around here, listen to the grass
            grow?


            Guess you had a lot more fun up at
            State Prison, huh?

CLYDE laughs, enjoying her repartee.  They continue walking.
At a hydrant, CLYDE stops.


                   
            See this foot?
                   (pointing at his
                   right foot)
            I chopped two toes off of it.  With
            an axe.


                   
            What?  Why?


            To get off the damn work detail,
            that's why.
                   
            Want to see?


                   
            No!...
                   
            I surely don't intend to stand here
            and look at your dirty feet in the
            middle of Main Street.

They continue walking in silence past a few stores, each
planning what next to say.


            Boy, did you really do that?


            Yeah.


            You must be crazy.








Gas station up the block.  BONNIE and CLYDE are seen leaning
against the soft drink chest, their profiles silhouetted by
the bright sun.  They are drinking cokes.  As they begin to
talk, the camera moves in closer to them.  CLYDE takes off
his hat and rubs the cold coke bottle across his forehead.
BONNIE watches him.


            What's it like?


            Prison?


                   
            No, armed robbery.


                   
            It's...I don't know...it isn't like
            anything.


                   (thinking she's heard
                   proof that he's a liar)
            Hah!  I knew you never robbed bo
            place, you faker.


                   
            Oh, yeah?
                   (studies her, then
                   makes up his mind to
                   show her)


Close-up.  Gun.  Day.  He reaches in his jacket and pulls
out a gun.  The camera moves to a closeup of the gun,
glinting in the sunlight.



The camera pulls back to show BONNIE looking at it with
fascination.  The weapon has an immediate effect on her.
She touches it in a manner almost sexual, full of repressed
excitement.


                   
            Yeah, well you got one all right, I
            guess...but you wouldn't have the
            gumption to use it.





                   (picking up the
                   challenge, proving himself)
            You just keep your eyes open.



The camera remains just behind BONNIE's shoulder so that
throughout the following scene we have BONNIE in the picture,
looking at what we look at.

CLYDE goes into the little store.  We remain outside with
BONNIE watching.  For a minute nothing happens.  We can
barely see what is going on in the store.  Then CLYDE comes
out, walking slowly.  In one hand he holds the gun, in the
other a fistful of money.  He gets halfway, to BONNIE and
smiles broadly at her, a smile of charm and personality.
She smiles back.  The moment is intense, as if a spark has
jumped from one to the other.  Their relationship, which
began the minute BONNIE spotted him in the driveway, has now
really begun.  CLYDE has shown his stuff and BONNIE is
"turned on."

Suddenly the old man who runs the grocery store comes
running out into the street, completely dumbfounded.  He
stands there and says nothing, yet his mouth moves in silent
protest.  CLYDE points the gun above him and fires.  It is
the first loud noise in the film thus far and it should be a
shock.  The old man, terrified, runs back into the store as
fast as he can, CLYDE quickly grabs BONNIE's hand.  The
camera swings with them as they turn and begin to run down
the street.  A few yards and the stores disappear entirely.
The landscape turns into that arid, flat and unrelieved
western plain that begins where the town ends.



A car is parked at the back of the store.  As soon as they
reach it, CLYDE motions and BONNIE gets in.  CLYDE runs to
the front, lifts up the hood and crosses the wires to make
it start.  As he stands back, BONNIE calls to him:


            Hey, what's your name, anyway?


                   
            Clyde Barrow.

He runs over to the door, opens it, shoves her over, and
starts up the engine.  The entire sequence is played at an
incredible rapid pace.





                   (loud, to make
                   herself heard over
                   the gunning motor)
            Hi, I'm Bonnie Parker.  Please to
            meet you.



VROOM!  The car zooms off down the road, doing 90.  The fast
country breakdown music starts up on the sound track, going
just as fast as the car.



The car, still speeding, further down the road.  We zoom
down and look in the rear window.  CLYDE is driving, we see
from behind.  BONNIE is all over him, biting his ear,
ruffling his hair, running her hands all over him--in short,
making passionate love to him while he drives.  The thrill
of the robbery and the escape has turned her on sexually.



The camera pulls back and above the car.  The car starts to
go crazy in a comical fashion, manifesting to the audience
just what is happening to the driver controlling it.  The
car swerves all over the road.  The car comes to a sudden
halt.  The car starts again.  It swerves this time almost
right off the road before it straightens out.  It jumps and
jerks.  Another car comes down the road the other way and
CLYDE's car swerves so much as to make the other guy drive
right off the road into the dirt.  It is almost Mack Sennett
stuff, but not quite that much.



BONNIE grabs the wheel and turns it sharply.



It hairpins off the road onto a shoulder beneath some trees.



--still settling to a stop.  BONNIE and CLYDE appear to be
necking heavily now, punctuated by BONNIE's squeals of
passion as she squirms and hops about like a flea, trying to
get to CLYDE.  The floor gear-shift is keeping their bodies
apart, however.  In exasperation, BONNIE takes the gear
shift and shoves it forward out of their way.  She plunges
onto CLYDE, burying him from view.





                   
            ...You ready?...


                   
            ...Hey, wait...


                   
            Aren't you ready?  Well, get ready!

BONNIE has obviously touched him.  With savage coquetry she
tears into her clothes and his.


                   
            C'mon, honey, c'mon, boy...let's
            go...let's...


                   
            Hey...hey, wait a minute...quit
            that now, cut it out.
                   
            I said, cut it out!

He shoves her rudely away, slamming her into the far car
door.  Suddenly it looks as if they've been fighting.  Both
unbuttoned and unglued, they stare silently at one another,
breathing heavily.  CLYDE gets out of the car, clearly
shaken.  Despite the fact that he may have encountered this
situation many times before, it's one that no twenty-one-
year-old boy in 1932 is sophisticated enough to dismiss
easily with bravado.

BONNIE remains seated in the car.  She seems terribly
vulnerable.  She fumbles about for a cigarette, too confused
to figure out what didn't happen.  CLYDE turns back and
reaches through the car window from the driver's side,
lighting it for her.  BONNIE casts CLYDE a fishy stare, then
accepts the light.


                   (trying to be casual,
                   even insouciant)
            Look, I don't do that.  It's not
            that I can't--
                   (his voice cracks,
                   the match burns his
                   fingers, and he bangs
                   his head onto roof of
                   car, and he goes
                   right on)
            --it's just that I don't see no
            percentage in it.






            I mean there's nothin' wrong with
            me, I don't like boys.

BONNIE doesn't know what she thinks, and CLYDE is trying to
gauge her reaction--whether she feels rejected or repelled.
In fact, it's both--along with a little latent fascination.


                   (finally, spitting
                   out smoke)
            Boy...boy...boy...


                   
            Boy, what?


            Your advertising is dandy.  Folks'd
            just never guess you don't have a
            thing to sell.
                   
            You better take me home, now.


                   
            Wait!


            Don't touch me!

She gets out of car, leaving CLYDE draped across the front
seat, reaching after her.


                   
            If all you want's stud service,
            then get on back to West Dallas and
            stay there the rest of your life!

This stops her.  Now CLYDE pours it on, with an almost
maniacal exuberance that becomes more controlled as he gets
control of BONNIE.


            But you're worth more'n that, a lot
            more, and you know it, and that's
            why you come along with me.  You
            could find a lover boy on every
            corner in town and it doesn't make
            a damn to them whether you're
            waiting on tables or picking
            cotton, so long as you cooperate.
            But it does make a damn to me!





                   
            Why?


            Why?  Because you're different!
            You're like me and you want
            different things.

BONNIE is hooked now.


                   
            You and me travelin' together, we
            could cut clean acrost this state,
            and Kansas, too, and maybe dip into
            Oklahoma, and Missouri or whatnot,
            and catch ourselves highpockets and
            a highheeled ol' time.  We can be
            somethin' we could never be alone.
            I'll show you...when we walk into
            the Adolphus Hotel in San Antone',
            you wearin' a silk dress, they'll
            be waitin' on you and believe me,
            sugar, they're gonna know your last
            name.

He stops, having begun to woo her to something more intense
than a casual, physical coupling.


            When'd you figure that all out?


            First time I saw you.


            How come?


                   
            'Cause you may be the best damn
            girl in Texas.

Close-up.  BONNIE.


            Who are you, anyway?








BONNIE and CLYDE seated in booth, now C.U. CLYDE.  The sound
track bridges the scene: the question that BONNIE has just
asked is now suddenly rebutted by CLYDE, as he points a
finger at her.


                   (not answering her,
                   preferring to lead
                   the conversation)
            I'll tell you about you.

He loves doing this and he does it well.  The more he
envisions BONNIE's life, the more instinctively accurate he
becomes.  She grows more and more fascinated, like a child
watching a mind reader.


            Lessee...You were born somewheres
            around East Texas...got a big old
            family, right?...You went to
            school, of course, but you didn't
            take to it much 'cause you was a
            lot smarter than everybody else
            anyway.  So you just quit.  Now...
                   (thinking, playing it
                   for all it's worth)
            ...When you were sixteen...no,
            seventeen, there was a guy who
            worked in...uh...

Pull back taking in BONNIE, favoring CLYDE.


                   
            Cement plant--


            Right.  Cement plant.  And you
            liked him 'cause he thought you was
            just as nice as you could be.  You
            almost married that guy, but
            then...you thought, no, you didn't
            think you would.  So you got your
            job in the cafe...
                   (getting closer to
                   home now, hitting
                   them right in there)
            And every morning you wake up and
            you hate it.  You just hate it.
            And you get down there and you put
            on your white uniform--





                   
            Pink.


            And the truck drivers come in to
            eat greasy burgers and they kid you
            and you kid them back, but they're
            stupid and dumb, boys with big
            tattoos all over 'em, and you don't
            like it...And they ask you for
            dates and sometimes you go...but
            you mostly don't, and all they ever
            try is to get into your pants
            whether you want to or not...and
            you go home and sit in your room
            and think, when and how will I ever
            get away from this?...And now you
            know.

BONNIE is half-mesmerized by his talk.  A waitress comes
with their food.  A cheap, gaudy dame, she has spit curls on
each temple in the style of the times.  CLYDE looks at her
and at BONNIE, who also wears spit curls.  As soon as the
waitress leaves:


                   
            Change that.  I don't like it.

Without a word of protest, BONNIE immediately reaches in her
bag and takes out a mirror.  She holds it up and with the
other hand, brushes back her spit curls into her hair.  She
never again wears them.  When she has pushed them back she
looks at CLYDE for his approval.  He nods his okay.  She
smiles, puts back her mirror and begins to eat her food.
She's ravenously hungry and eats with total concentration on
her plate.  CLYDE doesn't touch his food, just watches
BONNIE eat for a minute.


            God, you're a knockout.



CLYDE and BONNIE emerge from the cafe into the early evening.
They move toward the car they have stolen.  Just beyond sits
a newer model car.  BONNIE is surprised to see CLYDE head
toward the newer car.


            Hey, that ain't ours.





            Sure it is.


            But we came in this one.


            Don't mean we have to go home in it.

She walks amazed around the new car and gets in beside him.
He turns the key and they pull away from the cafe.




The room is bare.  In the middle BONNIE is waking, having
slept on a couple of car seats covered with an old piece of
tattered blanket.  There are windows behind her.  She looks
about bewildered.


            Clyde...

She starts to panic and runs to the window.


                   
            Clyde...

At another window CLYDE appears.


            Hey, lady.


                   
            Where you been keeping yourself?


            Slept out by the car.


            Oh...These accommodations ain't
            particularly deluxe.


            No...If they're after us, I want
            the first shot.  Come on, you got
            some work to do.

BONNIE moves to the door and out of the house.






On the door is a sign which reads:






Wide angle.  Across fence.  Day.  On the dilapidated picket
fence six old bottles have been placed.  As BONNIE joins
CLYDE he turns and fires six quick shots.  The bottles
disappear.


            You're good.


            The best.


            And modest...


            Come on.  Got you all set up over
            here.

Wider angle.  They move around to the side of the building
where CLYDE points to a tire hanging by a rope from a tree.
He means that to be BONNIE's target.  He hands her a gun.


            Set her spinnin'.

BONNIE fires.  She misses.


            Again.  Come down slow with it...

BONNIE fires again and hits the tire.  She smiles and blows
the smoke from the barrel in pride and self-mockery.


            Ain't you something?  I tell you
            I'm going to get you a Smith and
            Wesson, it'll be easier in your
            hand.  Now try it again once...

BONNIE sights.  As she is about to fire, a man appears
around the corner of the building.  A FARMER.  She fires and
hits the tire.


            Heighdo.




CLYDE whirls at the sound.  He grabs gun from BONNIE because
his is empty.  He aims at FARMER.


                   
            No sir...no sir.  You all go right
            ahead.

CLYDE watches him warily.


                   
            Used to be my place.  Not any more.
            Bank took it.

CLYDE and BONNIE start to move toward the farmer.  All three
move around to the front of the building.  At a distance we
see an Okie car loaded with belongings.  A WOMAN with a BABY
in arms sits in front.  A smaller BOY stands outside the car.


            Yessir, moved us off.  Now it
            belongs to them.
                   (He points at the
                   foreclosure sign.)



            Well, that's a pitiful shame.

CLYDE shakes his head sympathetically.  He loads the empty
gun.


                   
            You're damned right, ma'm.

He looks up to see an OLD NEGRO who has come from a distance
shack and now stands near CLYDE's car.


                   
            Me and him put in the years here.
            Yessir.  So you all go right ahead.
            We just come by for a last look.

He stands a moment looking at the house and then turns
around toward his family in the car.  CLYDE and BONNIE look
after him.  CLYDE spins and fires three fast shots into the
fore-closure sign.  The FARMER stops and turns, looking at
CLYDE.  CLYDE offers the gun to the farmer.  He looks at it,
then accepts it.  He slowly takes aim at the sign and fires.
It pleases him.  He looks at CLYDE and BONNIE who smile.





            You all mind?

BONNIE and CLYDE are puzzled.


            Hey, Davis!  Come on over here.

The NEGRO moves toward them.  Now BONNIE understands.  She
takes the second gun from CLYDE and hands it to DAVIS.
DAVIS looks from BONNIE to the FARMER and toward the house.
The FARMER fires again.  This time at a window.  He nods to
DAVIS.  DAVIS slowly raises the gun and fires at another
window.  It shatters and they can't keep from laughing.  The
FARMER returns the gun as does DAVIS.


                   
            Much obliged.

He extends his hand.  CLYDE shakes it.


            Otis Harrison.  And this here's
            Davis.  We worked this place.


                   
            Miss Bonnie Parker.  And I'm Clyde
            Barrow.

Across farmer's car.  Wide shot.  Day.  The FARMER turns and
moves toward his people.  DAVIS moves toward his shack.
CLYDE and BONNIE in the b.g.

Close angle.  BONNIE and CLYDE.


                   
            We rob banks.

BONNIE turns quickly to look at CLYDE.  He smiles and nods.







A car is driving down it.  It is the next day.  BONNIE is
driving, CLYDE beside her.







            You just stay in the car and watch
            and be ready.
                   (he is playing it
                   cool, knowing she is
                   scared.  He thinks
                   he's James Cagney)
            Okay now?
                   (he hands her a gun
                   from the glove compartment)
            You just be ready if I need you.

BONNIE's hands are tense on the wheel.  Her face shows how
nervous she is now that the time has come.


            Scared?


            No.

They drive in silence.


            What are you thinkin' about?


            Nothin'.



We are still in the car.  BONNIE pulls over and stops by the
bank.  CLYDE is frozen in his seat.  We can see that, for
all his talk, he is scared, too.


            What are you waitin' for?

That gets him.  CLYDE throws the door open and jumps,
practically dives out the door.  The camera follows his
motion right inside the bank, tracking very fast.



Something is very screwy here.  The bank is dark, the TELLER
is half asleep over his books.  CLYDE approaches, thrusts
the gun at him.





                   
            This is a stickup.  Just take it
            easy and nothin' will happen to you.
            Gimme the money.


                   (looking up with no
                   fear, his voice calm
                   and conversational)
            Heighdy.


                   
            Gimme the money!


            What money?  There ain't no money
            here, mister.


                   (totally befuddled at
                   the turn of events)
            What do you mean there ain't no
            money?  This here is a bank, ain't
            it?

The camera pans around the bank.  We see that it is empty,
dusty and shuttered.


            This was a bank.  We failed three
            weeks ago.


                   
            What?  What??

In a rage, he goes behind the partition, grabs the teller
and pushes him ahead with the gun.  CLYDE is fuming.  He
forces the teller out the front door.



--showing BONNIE in the car.  She is terrified as she sees
CLYDE and the TELLER coming at her.  She doesn't understand
what is happening.


                   
            Tell her!  Tell her!





                   (acting like a man
                   who has had his sleep
                   interrupted by lunatics)
            As I was tellin' this gentleman,
            our bank failed last month and
            ain't no money in it.  I sure am
            sorry.

BONNIE's reaction is one of hysterical relief and
appreciation of what's funny in the situation.  She laughs
uproariously, she can't stop laughing.  This makes CLYDE
madder than ever.  He shoves the teller to the ground.



Completely humiliated, CLYDE gets in the car, shoving BONNIE
over.  She is still laughing.  BONNIE starts the car.  CLYDE
points his gun out the window.

Close shot.  Bank window--whereon is lettered: ASSETS-$70,000.



Angle to include bank window.  CLYDE aims and puts a bullet
through each of the zeros.  We see each zero shot through.
Then the entire window hangs there for a second and suddenly
crashes.  On the soundtrack, BONNIE's laughter.





--still driving.  BONNIE has still not fully recovered from
her mirth, but is quieting down because she sees that CLYDE
is really mad and can't be pushed too far.


                   
            We got $1.98 and you're laughin'.

She tries to stop.



The car pulls down another street of shops in another little
hick town.  A grocery store ahead.




            Keep it running.






There is an old CLERK behind the counter, and standing in
the b.g., almost out of our vision, is a BUTCHER--an enormous
giant of a man.  CLYDE steps up to the counter.


            Give me a loaf of bread, a dozen
            eggs and a quart of milk.

The CLERK gets the order and puts it in a bag.  He rings
open the cash register preparatory to asking CLYDE for the
money.  CLYDE pulls his gun.


            This is a stickup.  I'll take all
            the money in that drawer now.

He reaches over the counter into the cash drawer and grabs
the bills.  He smiles.  Suddenly looming beside CLYDE is the
BUTCHER, brandishing a meat cleaver.  Camera looks up at
this formidable sight as the cleaver comes crashing down,
missing CLYDE and sticking in the wooden counter.  He grabs
CLYDE around the chest in a bear hug and actually lifts him
off the ground.  The struggle is in silence.  CLYDE is
terrified, fighting wildly to get free.  The gun in CLYDE's
hand is pinned, because the man has CLYDE's arm pinned to
his thigh.  CLYDE tries to raise the barrel at an upward
angle to shoot, finally he is able to do so.  He fires.  The
bullet enters the BUTCHER's stomach.  The BUTCHER screams,
but reacts like a wounded animal, more furious than ever.
He still holds CLYDE in a fierce hug, staggering around the
store, knocking into shelves and spilling cans.  CLYDE is
hysterical with fear.  He shoots the BUTCHER again.  The
BUTCHER falls to his knees, but still he doesn't release
CLYDE.  In a panic, CLYDE drags the man to the door, trying
to get out.



BONNIE sees CLYDE and the BUTCHER holding his legs.  She is
terrified.  CLYDE drags him out on the street.  The BUTCHER
won't let go.  CLYDE, in real panic, aims the gun at his
head and fires.  Click.  Out of bullets.  In blind fury, he
pistol-whips the BUTCHER's head with two terrific swipes.
Finally the BUTCHER lets go.  Hysterical, CLYDE jumps away
and leaps into the car on the other side.  BONNIE still at
the wheel.


            Get the hell out of here!

They drive-off at top speed.






CLYDE is shaken.  He speaks haltingly, panting; trying to
get control of himself.


            Damn him, that big son of a bitch...
            He tried to kill me... I ain't got
            eyes in back of my head... I didn't
            want to hurt him.  It wasn't a real
            robbery... Some food and a little
            bit of dough.  I'm not against him.
            Damn!



The car is speeding down an open road.  Suddenly it begins
to buck and cough.  There is something wrong with the motor.



His cherubic cheeks are puffed up as he blows into the fuel
lines of CLYDE's car.  There is a distinctly flat sound.

Reaction: CLYDE and BONNIE.  CLYDE stands by the hood.
BONNIE remains seated in the car.  CLYDE is covered with
sweat and grease--clearly he has gotten in his licks on the
engine without success.  Neither he nor BONNIE seems
impressed by the noise C.W. is making.

Another angle.  C.W.--as he screws back the fuel line and
moves between BONNIE and CLYDE to the ignition, turning the
engine over.  It purrs beautifully.  CLYDE is astonished.


            What was wrong, anyway?


                   (moving back to screw
                   on gas cap)
            Air bubble--clogged the fuel line.

C.W. now stands between BONNIE and CLYDE.


                   
            I just blowed her away.

CLYDE still can't get over it.


            You just blowed it away.

C.W. belches.  He is embarrassed before BONNIE.





            'Scuse me, ma'm... Anythin' else I
            can do for you?

CLYDE nods vigorously, looking across C.W.'s back to BONNIE.
BONNIE gets the message.


            Well...I'm not sure...
                   
            Say, them little red things there
            stickin' up?  Are they gas pumps?


                   
            Sure.


            Isn't that interesting?  How does
            that there gasoline get in my
            little old car?


                   
            Well, y'see, there's this tank
            underground, and the gas comes up
            this tube into the pump and into
            your car, M'am.


            My, you're a smart fellow.  You
            sure know a lot about automobiles,
            don't you?


                   (he has no idea he's
                   being toyed with)
            Yeah, I do.


            Well, would you know what kind of a
            car this is?


                   
            Yeah, it's a Chevrolet 8-cylinder
            coupe.


            No, no.


            Sure it is.





            No, this is a stolen Chevrolet 8-
            cylinder coupe.

C.W. jerks his hand off it as if he touched a hot stove.


                   
            You ain't scared, are you?
                   
            I believe he is.  What a pity.  We
            sure coulda used a smart boy who
            knows such a great deal about
            automobiles.
                   (suddenly business-
                   like, to C.W.)
            You a good driver, boy?


                   
            I guess so.


                   (pretending to cool
                   on him)
            No, I don't think so.  He's better
            off here...


            What's your name, boy?


            C.W. Moss.


            What's the C.W. for?


                   
            Clarence Wallace.


            I'm Miss Bonnie Parker and this is
            Mr. Clyde Barrow.   We... rob...
            banks.
                   (C.W. reacts with
                   wide eyes)



                   
            Ain't nothing wrong with that, is
            there, boy?





                   
            Uh, nope--


                   
            No, he ain't the one.


            Unless, Boy, you think you got
            enough guts for our line of work?


                   (affronted in his
                   dumb way)
            What do you mean?  I served a year
            in the reform school.


            Oh, a man with a record!


                   
            Now look here, I know you got the
            nerve to short-change old ladies
            who come in for gas, but what I'm
            askin' you is have you got what it
            takes to pull bank jobs with us?


            Mr. C.W. Moss?


                   
            Sure, I could.  Sure I could.  I
            ain't scared, if that's what you
            think.


            Prove it.

C.W. walks away from the car.  Camera remains where it was.
We see him walk inside the gas station office, open the cash
drawer, close it and come out.  He emerges with a fistful of
money.  He walks over to BONNIE's window, sticks his hand
inside and drops the money on her lap.  We see the bills
flutter down.  Not a word is spoken.  BONNIE moves over into
the middle.  C.W. opens the door and gets in behind the
wheel.  For a moment we see them all sitting there, each
smiling their little smile.  CLYDE starts to hum a hillbilly
tune quietly.  The sound track picks it up (banjo and
violin, etc.) and as the music swells, they drive off down
the road.






A small room with a bed.  On it, covered by a sheet which
humps like a mountain over his enormous stomach, is the
BUTCHER.  His head is propped up on a pillow and he sips a
liquid through a bent glass straw.  Camera is on the left
side of the head of the bed, seeing the BUTCHER in a three-
quarter profile.  On the opposite side of the bed stands a
uniformed patrolman who is in the act of flashing mug-shot
photos for the BUTCHER to identify his assailant.  The
lawman holds a stack of them in front of them, swiftly
changing the cards like a grade-school teacher with her
flash cards.  At each picture, the BUTCHER grunts negatively
and goes on sipping from his glass straw.  One picture, two,
three go by.  The fourth picture is a mug shot of CLYDE.
Again the BUTCHER grunts 'no,' without hesitation.  As the
next picture comes into view, we





--on a painted wooden sign, lit by one attached light, which
reads: "MOTOR COURT".



--in darkness.  Camera is close on BONNIE.  She is awake and
restless.  O.S. comes the measured snoring that we will
think comes from CLYDE.  BONNIE raises up and kneels over
Clyde.  She needs him.  Clyde seems to snore on.  Camera
drops between them and we see that the snoring actually
comes from C.W.  BONNIE drops back on her pillow.  We cut
close on CLYDE.  He is awake.



BONNIE, CLYDE and C.W. seated in a booth in a cafe.  The
Waitress brings the food and serves everybody.  We see C.W.
With great concentration, as he does everything by relating
to the immediate action he happens to be involved with, he
takes the sugar shaker and begins methodically sprinkling
sugar over all his food.  He sugars the meat, the beans, and
the beets.  BONNIE and CLYDE watch this performance with
first, amazement and second, disgust.  They can't believe
what they see.


                   
            C.W., what are you doing?  Why do
            you do that?





                   
            Why not?


            It's just disgusting, that's why.


                   
            Not to me it ain't.


            But...but it makes everything sweet!


            Yeah, I know.

With a resigned expression, BONNIE turns away and begins to
eat.  Suddenly a look of consternation crosses C.W.'s face.


            Damn!  No mayonnaise!

He gets up and goes down to the counter on the other end of
the restaurant, out of our vision, apparently planning to
put mayonnaise over the sugar.  The minute he is out of
earshot, BONNIE gets CLYDE's attention.


            Clyde, why does he have to stay in
            the same room as us?

CLYDE seems not to have heard the question.  He takes up the
sugar shaker and spreads a thin field of sugar on the dark
table surface.  He will sketch his plan in the sugar.


            Lemme show you about tomorrow.


            Why?


            Now C.W.'ll be waitin' right
            outside in the car.  Here is the
            teller's cage.  Four of them and
            over here the desks and what have
            you...


            Why, Clyde...


            Hmmm??





            In the same room with us?


            Hell, where else?  Ain't gonna
            spread out all over the state...

The harshness of his tone concerns him and he recovers with
a smile.


                   
            Not yet, anyway.  Now, the door to
            the bank is here now.  You cover me
            from there.


                   (takes his hand to
                   her face)
            Just that I love you so much.


            You're the best damn girl in Texas.

C.W. comes back with the mayonnaise; looks at the table.


            Hey, you spilled the sugar.

Three shot.


                   
            The layout for tomorrow up in
            Mineola.


            Mineola?  Gosh, that's four, five
            hundred miles from here!


            So what?  We take U.S. 85 to Willis
            Point, don't you know, and cut over
            on State Highway 28 at Kaufman,
            keep on goin' till we hit the farm-
            to-market road that connects to 105
            and that's right up by Mineola.  On
            a Saturday afternoon...



The car driving into a small Kansas town.  It is Saturday
afternoon, sunny.  The streets are filled with people, cars,
wagons.  C.W.




is driving, BONNIE is in front with him, CLYDE is in the
back.  C.W. looks scared to death at the idea of robbing a
bank.  The car pulls up in front of the bank, double-parked.
BONNIE and CLYDE get out.




            Keep it running.

BONNIE and CLYDE enter bank.



Cut to the interior of the bank.  BONNIE and CLYDE come in,
assume the class positions--she at the door where she can
cover the bank, CLYDE at the first teller's cage.


                   
            This is a stickup.


            What?


            This is a stickup.

This time everyone in the bank hears it.  The people gasp
and pull back.  CLYDE slowly edges toward the door and prods
BONNIE forward.  She carries a paper sack.  CLYDE motions
her to go from cage to cage and get all of the money.
BONNIE begins doing so, while CLYDE keeps his gun trained on
everybody.  We see BONNIE get the money from the first
teller, the second teller, then...



A car parked in a tight spot has just pulled out.

Close-up C.W.  Day--who suddenly looks delighted to see a
parking space.



Immediately he methodically begins to back in.  It's a tight
spot and he has to cut the wheel, pull forward, cut some
more, pull back and so on.  The scene, for the audience,
should be nervous and funny.








Inside the bank, BONNIE and CLYDE have filled the sack.
They run out the door, the camera tracks with them.



They run for where the car was, but it isn't there.  Then
they see C.W. has parked it.




            Let's go!  Let's go!

C.W. suddenly realizes what a stupid thing he's done.



C.W. tries to shoot out of the parking spot, but he can't.
He has to go through the business of backing up, cutting the
wheel and all of it.  The scene is one of pure pandemonium
and chaos.




            Come on!  Get it out!



A policeman arrives and begins firing at car.  C.W. gets the
car halfway out of the spot, scraping fenders in the process,
and the car is almost out when suddenly a face looms up at
the window--a dignified, white-haired, celluloid-collared
man, obviously a bank official who has leaped onto the
running board.  His screaming can barely by distinguished
from all the noise.


            Stop!

CLYDE fires through the window.

Close-up .  The face of the man explodes in
blood.  Then he drops out of sight.



The car shoots off down the road, doing ninety.  Police are
firing at the escaping car; BONNIE and CLYDE are shooting
out the back window; C.W. is almost having a nervous
breakdown at the wheel.






A police car that had been chasing CLYDE and BONNIE's car
comes down the street.  It is obvious that the cops have
lost them.  They are searching the street for a sign of
CLYDE's car.  They pass a movie house whose marquee reads:
"GOLDDIGGERS OF 1933."  They slow for a moment, decide that
is not a probable place to look.  They drive off.



The opening musical sequence of "Golddiggers" is on the
screen.  Ginger Rogers sings "We're In The Money."  Among
the audience we cannot make out our three people.  It is a
small audience and thinly dispersed.

Tight shot at audience.  Camera pans the audience while on
the track we hear the music of the song.  First of our group
who becomes visible is C.W.  He is staring at the screen and
eating bites from a candy bar in each hand.  Camera pans
further and we see that CLYDE is in the row behind C.W. and
a few seats to one side.  CLYDE is nervous and keeps watching
the entrance doors.  He is in a rage.  He shifts in his seat.


            Boy, you gotta be poor in the head.
            You...!  Count of you I killed a
            man.  Murder...you too.

Shot from behind CLYDE.  Shooting toward screen.


                   
            Dumb ass stupid.

C.W. turns to CLYDE and nods agreement.  This infuriates
CLYDE even more.  He slaps the back of C.W.'s head.


            Ever do a dumb thing like that
            again, I'll kill you boy!

Angle at BONNIE.  She has been watching the movie; is now
disturbed by the noise.  She turns back to CLYDE from her
seat on the aisle.


            Ssshh!  If you boys want to talk
            why don't you go outside?

She smiles at her joke and turns back to the screen to the
movie which she is obviously enjoying enormously.






On the right of the screen, f.g., BONNIE stands at the sink
fixing her make-up in the mirror.  The make-up has become
more conservative.  On the left, further back, is a bathtub
and in it sits C.W.  His head and knees peek over the gray,
soapy water.  He is engaged with his usual single-minded
concentration, in washing himself, carefully scrubbing his
arms, not a thought in his head.  BONNIE finishes her make-
up and regards herself quizzically, tilting her head to look
at herself at different angles.  She is smoking a cigarette,
and really, studying herself.


            What do you think of me, C.W.?


            Uh...well, you're just fine, I
            guess.  Uh, well, course you're a
            real good shot...and...uh...well,
            sometimes you look pretty as a
            painting.

Camera stays with BONNIE during all this, watching her look
at herself as she listens to C.W.'s evaluation.  She has a
narcissistic concern at the moment and as she hears him
enumerate her values, she thinks about each in turn and
decides yes, that's true.


            Hey, uh, Bonnie...could you get me
            that washrag there?

Responding automatically, BONNIE turns and walks to a towel
rack, pulls the washcloth off and starts toward C.W. when
suddenly she stops with a smile on her face and a sudden
motion.  Teasingly, she holds the washcloth out at arm's
length.


                   
            Why'nt you come get it?


                   (not even realizing
                   what's on her mind)
            Huh?


                   (wiggling the
                   washcloth like a
                   bull-fighter's cape)
            Whyn't you come get it, C.W.?




Suddenly C.W. looks mortally embarrassed as he realizes what
that would entail.


            Aw, Bonnie, come on, gimme it.

BONNIE tries another tack.  She begins sauntering over
slowly, teasingly, still holding out the treasured washcloth.


                   
            All right, I'll bring it myself.

As she moves closer to the tub, C.W. realizes that she will
be able to peer down into the tub and see him and he
frantically reaches up with one hand and yanks the washcloth
into the tub, causing a great splash.  BONNIE, somewhat the
victim of the splash, jumps back and away.  Recovering her
composure, she looks at C.W. who is slunk down in the tub
like a gross September Morn.  She has tried him and he has
failed; she realizes now that he was no choice for her; no
real man, even if he might perform sexually.  He is a lump.
This irritates her; his very presence is demeaning to
herself and CLYDE.


                   (irritated with
                   herself for even
                   thinking of such a thing)
            You simpleton, what would you do if
            we just pulled out some night while
            you was asleep?


                   (trying to give the
                   right answer, but
                   obviously faking it)
            Oh, I wouldn't know what to do.
            But you wouldn't do that.  You
            couldn't now.

BONNIE realizes, with some weariness, the inevitable truth
of what he's said; thus resigned, she says patronizingly:


            That's right, C.W.  We'll always be
            around to take care of you.

Pointedly, she throws her cigarette in his bath-water,
"Sssssssssss."  She turns and leaves the bathroom, slamming
the door behind her.






Camera goes with her into the connecting bedroom.  CLYDE is
sitting on the edge of the bed cleaning the guns and oiling
them.  He is quiet and preoccupied and takes no note of
BONNIE's present condition.  The moment she enters, he looks
up.


                   
            Bonnie, I want to talk to you.  Sit
            down.

BONNIE sits, a little taken off balance by his serious
manner.  But she listens quietly.


                   
            This afternoon we killed a man and
            we were seen.  Now nobody knows who
            you are yet, but they're going to
            be after me and anybody who's
            runnin' with me.  Now that's murder
            now and it's gonna get rough.
                   (BONNIE nods.  CLYDE
                   continues speaking
                   carefully and gently.)
            Look, I can't get out, but right
            now you still can.  You say the
            word and I'll put you on the bus to
            go back to your Mother.  'Cause you
            mean a lot to me, honey, and I
            ain't going to make you run with me.
            So if you want, you say the word.

BONNIE, moved by his offer, has tears in her eyes.


                   
            Why?  We ain't gonna have a minute's
            peace.

BONNIE doesn't like him in this mood.  She tries to josh him
out of it.


            Oh, pshaw.


                   (trying to make her
                   see the seriousness
                   of it)
            Bonnie, we could get killed.





                   (death has no reality
                   for her)
            Who'd wanna kill a sweet young
            thing like me?


                   
            I ain't no sweet young thing.


            Oh, Clyde, I can't picture you with
            a halo, and if you went to the
            other place you'd rob the Devil
            blind, so he'd kick you right back
            to me.

Close-up.  CLYDE--touched deeply, realizes that this was a
lovely thing to say to him.



They kiss.  They are near the bed on which are some guns
that CLYDE has been cleaning.  The kiss moves toward real
love making.  They are on the bed and push the guns aside.
Some fall to the floor.  CLYDE breaks the embrace after it
has reached a high pitch.  He moves away from the bed toward
the window.  BONNIE follows him and embraces him from the
rear.  They are miserable.  BONNIE frees him and returns to
the bed.  She falls on it face down.  A gun presses into her
face.  CLYDE sits in the window, the light silhouettes him.
He turns his face toward the glass and rests his head on the
window pane.  BONNIE turns to him from bed.  She smiles a
comforting smile at him.  She rolls over onto her back.  The
gun is now under her head and moves it.  She sits up and
gestures to CLYDE.  He remains at the window.  She stares at
him.  She looks toward the bathroom.  She looks back at
CLYDE.  She is moved and pained for him.  She touches her
cheek with the gun and waits for him to be able to look at
her.  Finally he does.  Her look eases him and he almost
smiles.



Shot of little fuzzy doll tied by a white shoestring to the
rear-view mirror of a car.  The car is moving; the doll is
bouncing up and down.  In the front seat are BUCK and
BLANCHE BARROW.  BUCK is a jovial, simple, big-hearted man.
A little chubby, given to raucous jokes, knee-slapping and
broad reactions.  He is, in many ways, the emotional opposite
of his brother.  It doesn't take much to make him happy.
BLANCHE, his wife, is the direct opposite of BONNIE.




She is a housefrau, no more and no less, not terribly
bright, not very ambitious, cuddly, simpering, madly in love
with BUCK and desirous of keeping their lives on the straight
and narrow.  As the scene begins we hear and then see BUCK,
driving, singing "The Great Speckled Bird."  BLANCHE is
sitting next to him looking at a movie magazine, appearing
fairly miserable.


                   
            "What a beautiful thought I am
            thinking
            Concernin' that great speckled
            bird,
            Remember his name is recorded
            on the pages of God's Holy word..."


            All right, now you did foolish
            things as a young man, honey-love,
            but you went and paid your debt to
            society and that was right.  But
            now you just gettin' back in with
            the criminal element.


            Criminal element!  This is my
            brother, darlin'.  Shoot, he ain't
            no more criminal than you are,
            Blanche.


            Well, that ain't what I heard.


            Now word of mouth just don't go,
            darlin', you gotta have the facts.
            Shoot.  Why he and me growed up
            together, slept and worked side by
            side.
                   
            God, what a boy he was!


            He's a crook.


                   
            Now you stop bad-mouthin' him,
            Blanche.  We're just gonna have us
            a little family visit for a few
            weeks and then we'll go back to
            Dallas and I'll get me a job
            somewheres.






            I just ain't gonna work in your
            Daddy's church--That's final.
                   
            "What a beautiful thought I am
            thinking
            Concernin' that great speckled
            bird..."





BUCK's car drives up to the cabin, honking the horn wildly.
The door of the cabin opens and CLYDE comes running out.  He
is overjoyed to see his brother.  BUCK jumps out of the car,
equally delighted.  They hug each other.


                   
            Buck!


            Clyde!  You son of a bitch!

They laugh happily and begin sparring with each other,
faking punches and blocking punches--an old childhood ritual.
There is a great feeling of warmth between the two brothers.
CLYDE is more outgoing than we have ever seen him before.


            How's ma?  How's sister?


            Just fine, just fine.  Send their
            best to you.


                   
            Hey, you're fillin' out there.
            Must be that prison food.


            Hell no!
                   
            It's married life.  You know what
            they say, it's the face powder that
            gets a man interested, but it's the
            baking powder that keeps him at
            home.






                   (he explodes with
                   laughter and so does
                   Clyde, who loves
                   Buck's jokes)
            Hey! you gotta meet my wife.  Hey,
            honey, c'mon out here now and meet
            my baby brother.

Camera swings to car.  We see BLANCHE still sitting there,
her face obscured by the glint of sun on the windshield.
Slowly, she gets out of the car, still carrying the movie
magazine.


                   (suspiciously, quite
                   the grand lady)
            Howdy-do.


                   
            Howdy-do.  It's real nice to know
            you.

BUCK beams with pleasure, thinking they must like each other.
BONNIE comes out of the cabin, standing on the steps.  The
screen door slams behind her.

Close-up.  BONNIE.  Day--expressionless, looking it all over.



BUCK and CLYDE notice nothing of this.  BUCK bounds over to
BONNIE, all jollity.


                   
            Well!  You must be Bonnie!  Now I
            hear you been takin' good care of
            the baby in the family.  Well sis,
            I'm real glad to meet you!
                   (he hugs her; BONNIE
                   just lets herself be hugged)
            Say...
                   
            I'd like you to meet my wife,
            Blanche.


                   
            Hello.





                   
            Hello.

There is an awkward pause.  Suddenly the screen door opens
and C.W. comes out, dressed in his long underwear.  BLANCHE
can hardly stand it.


            Everybody, this is C.W. Moss.
            C.W., my brother Buck and his wife,
            Blanche.


                   
            Heighdy, y'all.

He pumps BUCK's hand vigorously and then goes to BLANCHE.
With his characteristic one-track intensity, he decides to
act just as friendly as he can with BLANCHE, ignoring the
fact that he's standing there in his underwear.  BLANCHE,
however, is not ignoring it.


            Well how do, Mrs. Barrow.  Or can I
            call you Blanch?  I sure am pleased
            to meet you.
                   (shaking her hand;
                   Blanche is slowly
                   going crazy with mortification)
            Did you have a hard time findin' us
            here in this neck of the woods?
            Well, you sure picked a good day
            for it.  Say, you got a Screenland
            there!  Any new photos of Myrna Loy?
            She's my favorite picture star.

BLANCHE is starting to edge over to BUCK in sheer panic at
this strange, young man in his BVD's but C.W. takes no
notice of it.

BLANCHE finally grabs BUCK's arm.  BONNIE watches it all,
smirking.


            Hey, lemme get the Kodak!

BUCK goes to his car and gets a folding Brownie camera.


                   
            Hey, C.W., go put your pants on.
            We're gonna take some pictures.





            Y'all hear about the guy who
            thought Western Union was a cowboy's
            underwear?

BUCK and CLYDE and C.W. laugh heartily.  C.W. goes into the
cabin.  BUCK pushes BLANCHE and CLYDE together, posing them
for a picture.


            Lemme get one of my bride and my
            brother.


                   (getting kittenish,
                   and overdoing it)
            Buck!  Don't take my picture now.
            I'm just a mess from driving all day.


            Oh honey, now you look real fine.

BONNIE watches BLANCHE's behavior with hardly-veiled disgust.
BUCK snaps the picture as BLANCHE is just about to move out
of it.


                   (with unbecoming
                   girlish outrage)
            Did you take my picture?  Oh Buck!
            I declare--

BUCK laughs and goes to BONNIE, takes her by the arm and
moves her next to CLYDE and BLANCHE.  He lines them up,
steps back and takes their picture.  CLYDE is the only one
smiling.


                   (pulling out his gun
                   and posing like a
                   movie tough)
            Hey, Buck, get one of this.

BUCK does.


                   
            Clyde, you do one of me and my
            missus.

He puts his arm around BLANCHE.  CLYDE takes the picture.





                   
            Let me take on of Bonnie.

BONNIE grins at him and responds with amused arrogance.


                   (she yanks the cigar
                   from Clyde's mouth,
                   smokes it and poses)
            Okay.

CLYDE snaps the picture.  Everyone but BLANCHE laughs.  C.W.
comes out dressed.


                   
            Hey, brother, let's you and me do a
            little talkin'.


                   
            Here, C.W., take the girls' picture.



They walk into the cabin.  Camera goes with them.  Bedroom
is dark, shades pulled down.  There is an aura of boys'
clubhouse secret camaraderie in the following scene:


                   (as soon as the door
                   is shut; conspiratorially)
            It was you or him, wasn't it?


            Huh?


            That guy you killed.  You had to,
            didn't ya?


                   (they are protecting
                   each other)
            Yeah, he put me in a spot, so I had
            to.  He didn't have a Chinaman's
            chance.


            But you had to--


            Yeah.  I had to.





                   (like two kids
                   keeping a secret from Mom)
            Don't say nothin' to Blanche about
            it.


            Hey, that time you broke out of
            jail, she talk you into goin' back?


                   (it is obvious he had
                   hoped Clyde hadn't
                   known about it)
            Yeah, you hear about that?


            I won't say nothin' to Bonnie about
            it.


            I appreciate it.


            Yeah...say, what d'ya think of
            Bonnie?


            She's a real peach.

There is now a long pause--a lull in the conversation, as if
they asked each other all the questions and are now out of
things to say.  It is too much for BUCK, the natural enemy
of silence, who suddenly claps his hands together and bursts
out animatedly:


            Boy, are we gonna have us a good
            time!


                   
            We surely are!


            Yessir!
                   
            What are we gonna do?


            Well, how's this--I thought we'd
            all go to Missouri.  They ain't
            lookin' for me there.  We'll hole
            up someplace and have us a regular
            vacation.  All right?





            No trouble, now?


            No trouble.  I ain't lookin' to go
            back to prison.


            Hey, what's this I hear about you
            cuttin' up your toes, boy?


                   
            That ain't but half of it.  I did
            it so I could get off work detail--
            breakin' those damned rocks with a
            hammer day and night.  Sure enough,
            next week I got paroled.  I walked
            out of that god-forsaken jail on
            crutches.


            Shoot--


            Ain't life grand?



We see the two cars, one behind the other, driving down a
main road.



CLYDE is driving.  BUCK sits next to him.  No one else is in
the car.


            And the doc, he takes him aside,
            says, "Son, your old mama just
            gettin' weak and sickly layin'
            there.  I want you to persuade her
            to take a little Brandy, y'know, to
            pick her spirits up." "Why, doc,"
            he says, "you know my mamma is a
            teetotaler.  She wouldn't touch a
            drop." "Well, I tell you what," the
            doc says, "why don't you bring her
            a fresh quart of milk every day
            from your farm, 'cept you fix it up
            so half of it's Brandy and don't
            let on!" So he does that, doctors
            it up with Brandy, and his mamma
            drinks some of it.






            And the next day he brings it again
            and she drinks some more--and she
            keeps it up every day.  Finally,
            one week later, he brings her the
            milk and don't you know she just
            shallows it all down, and looks at
            her bag and says, "Son, whatever
            you do, don't sell that cow!"

CLYDE and BUCK explode in laughter.



At the top of the laugh, cut to the int. of the second car,
riding right in back of them.  The atmosphere is completely
unlike the cozy and jolly scene preceding.  We have dead
silence.  BONNIE is driving, smoking a cigarette, grim.
BLANCHE--seated as far away as she can get from BONNIE
without falling out of the car--makes a face at the cigarette
smoke, rolls down the window for air.  C.W.'s in the back
seat, just staring.





A residential street in Joplin, Missouri, showing a garage
apartment above a double garage.  Camera sees BUCK talking
to a dapper gent with keys in his hand.  BUCK pays him.  The
man tips his hat and walks off.  BUCK gestures and Clyde
drives a car into the driveway.  C.W. follows, driving
BUCK's car with BLANCHE.  CLYDE stops beside BUCK.  BUCK
leans into CLYDE's car and says:


            I give him a month's rent in
            advance.  We're all set.  Let's get
            inside.

CLYDE calls back to C.W. in the following car.


            Pull up and unload the stuff.


                   (on the running board
                   of moving car)
            Honey-love, I'm taking you into our
            first home.

BLANCHE giggles.  The two cars pull up before the garage and
the people start to descend.






A winded BUCK enters and puts down BLANCHE.  As others
behind him carry in their things and disperse throughout
apartment.


            Oh look, it's so clean, Buck.  And
            a Frigidaire...not an icebox!


            He give me the grocery number.

He goes to the phone.


                   
            Lemme see, eh 4337...Operator...
            please ma'm, may I have 4337...if
            you please?


            Oh...they got linoleum on the
            counter.  Ain't that clever!


            Hello, Smitty's grocery...I'd like
            to order a mess of groceries.  Oh
            yeah...eh 143 Hillsdale Street.
            Lessee, about 8 pounds of porkchops,
            4 pounds of red beans...a can of
            Chase and Sandborn...uh.


            Oh, isn't this something, Daddy!


            Sshh.  Uh...quart of milk...uh 8
            bottles of Dr. Pepper and that's
            it, I guess.  No...no.  Uh...a box
            of Rice Krispies...Bye now.





Open on BONNIE and CLYDE.  He is cleaning guns.  She is
watching something off screen.  We hear a clicking sound.


            My, you need a haircut, Daddy.  You
            look like a hillbilly boy.




A look of disgust crosses BONNIE's face.  CLYDE, who has
been watching her, smiles.  The clicking sound increases
suddenly.


            Gotcha!

BLANCHE whoops.  Camera cuts to see that BUCK and C.W. are
playing checkers and BUCK has just beaten him.


            Again.


            Boy, you ain't never gonna beat me
            but you keep tryin' now.

He starts to set up the game again.


            Jest like an ol' man.  Plays
            checkers all the time and doesn't
            pay any attention to his poor
            lonely wife.

She ruffles his hair again.


            Cut it out now, honey.  I'm gonna
            teach this boy a lesson he'll never
            forget.

Camera cuts to BONNIE, watching with disgust.  Then slowly,
a wicked little smile edges across her face.  She watches
for a moment more, then she rises and with the most ingenuous
look she can muster up, beckons to CLYDE to follow her into
the bedroom.  A little puzzled, CLYDE follows.



BONNIE closes the door and immediately begins fussing with
CLYDE's hair, doing a scathing imitation of BLANCHE.  Though
her miming expresses her irritation at being closeted with
the Barrow menage, it is also a peach doing an imitation of
a lemon--and it is disarmingly sensual... Indeed the mimicry
allows BONNIE to be physically freer with CLYDE, and allows
CLYDE to respond without anxiety, without self-consciousness.
We should have the distinct--if momentary--feeling that
CLYDE could suddenly make it with BONNIE.





                   
            Oh, Daddy, you shore need a haircut.
            You look just like a little old
            hillbilly boy, I do declare.
                   (she has her other
                   hand toying with the
                   buttons on his shirt,
                   her hand slipping
                   under, fluttering
                   across his bare chest)
            Oh mercy me, oh my stars!

CLYDE laughs, and BONNIE tugs at the shirt--she kneels on
the bed over CLYDE, who quite easily drapes across it.


                   
            Oh, Daddy!  Yore such a slowpoke!

She's letting her hair fall loose, its golden ends brushing
up and down CLYDE's body.


                   
            Hush up a little.  They're in the
            next room.


                   (a mock-pout, but
                   with an edge to it)
            Shoot, there's always somebody in
            this room, the next room and ever'
            other kind of room.

CLYDE has his arm around BONNIE, and she's almost draped
across him--but in the direction of the length of the bed,
so their bodies almost form a crooked cross.  She digs an
elbow into his stomach.


            Oof!...now that ain't no nice way
            to talk about my brother.


                   (imitating Blanche
                   again with baby talk)
            I ain't talking about your brother.

Suddenly BONNIE straightens up to a kneeling position again,
and cocks her head.  When she speaks now it is with a simple
plaintiveness.





            Honey, do you ever just want to be
            alone with Me?
                   (sensing Clyde's
                   sensitivity to the
                   sexual implication)
            I don't just mean like that...I
            mean do you ever have the notion of
            us bein' out together and alone,
            like at some fancy ball, or, I
            don't know, where we walk in all
            dressed and they announce us and
            it's fancy and in public, but we're
            alone somehow.  We're separate from
            everybody else, and they know it.

CLYDE looks up to BONNIE, affectionately.  He runs his hand
carelessly down her body.


            I always feel like we're separate
            from everybody else.


                   (it's terribly
                   important to her)
            Do you, baby?

Suddenly there is a ring at the door.  BONNIE and CLYDE
freeze.



BONNIE and CLYDE run out into the living room, camera going
with them.


                   
            Quiet!  I'll get it.

BONNIE goes down the stairs and reaches the front door.


            Who is it?


            Groceries, M'am.



She opens the door.  A young man is there with the two big
sacks of groceries.





            How much?


            Six dollars and forty-three cents.

BONNIE pays him and goes to take the bags from him.


            Here, M'am, them bags is heavy.
            Let me carry 'em up for you.


                   
            No thanks, I'll take 'em.

She takes the heavy bags and hefts them up and turns and
walks up the stairs.  They are obviously very heavy for her.
Closeup the delivery boy's face, looking puzzled at this
behavior.  BONNIE reaches the top steps, and voices are heard.


            What was it?


            Quiet.  Open the door.


            C'mon, c'mon...

Close-up.  The DELIVERY BOY.  A look of suspicion comes
across his face.





Close-up of BONNIE--seated in the living room.


                   (reading from a pad;
                   in a recital voice)
            It's called "The Ballad of Suicide
            Sal."
                   (she pauses for
                   effect; then begins:)
            "We each of us have a good alibi
            For being down here in the 'joint';
            But few of them really are justified
            If you get right down to the point.
            You've heard of a woman's glory
            Being spent on a downright cur'."





            You write that all by yourself?


            You want to hear this or not?

As she reads, the camera pans around the room picking out
everyone's reaction.  CLYDE is looking and listening
seriously.  BUCK is grinning.  C.W. is blank.  BLANCHE is in
the kitchen cooking.


            "Still you can't always judge the
            story
            As true, being told by her.
            Now 'Sal' was a gal of rare beauty,
            Though her features were coarse and
            tough--"


            Yeah, I knew her.  She was cockeyed
            and had a hare-lip and no teeth!

BONNIE flashes him a look that could kill.  He shuts up fast.
She continues:


            "Now 'Sal' was a gal of rare
            beauty,
            Though her features were coarse and
            tough;
            She never once faltered from duty
            To play on the 'up and up'."

Still listening, CLYDE gets up from his chair and walks
slowly past the living room windows.  The camera angled
slightly above him, sees down the street.  We see two police
cars quietly pulling up.  One of them parks sideways in the
driveway to block escape from the garage, the other stays on
the street.  CLYDE turns and looks out the window.


                   (o.s. as we see out
                   the window)
            "Sal told me this tale on the
            evening
            Before she was turned out free,
            And I'll do my best to relate it
            Just as she told it to me--"


                   
            It's the law.




As soon as CLYDE calls out, BLANCHE drops the frying pan on
the floor and begins screaming.  Camera cuts back to the
living room.  Everyone else leaps into action.  Guns begin
blazing from everywhere; we rarely see who is shooting at
whom.



The police, down the stairs into the garage--we follow them
with a hand-held camera tracking rapidly.



BLANCHE, however, in utter panic, just runs right out the
front door, and begins running down the quiet residential
street, going nowhere, anywhere.



BUCK, crouching, shooting with one hand, gets the garage
door open.  A policeman fires.  BUCK fires back and the cop
falls dead in the street.  BUCK, firing, dashes to the
police car blocking their escape and releases the hand brake.
CLYDE, BONNIE and C.W. leap into their car, gun the motor,
still shooting madly.  Two more police fall dead or wounded.
One policeman is hurled through a fence by the blast of a
sawed-off shotgun.  BUCK jumps into the car with the others.
They now begin to bump the police car with their car.  The
police car picks up speed as they push it and it tears into
the street right at the group of firing police.  The gang's
car turns into the street toward the running BLANCHE.
BONNIE and CLYDE are in front; BUCK and C.W. in the back
seat firing back at police.  The car pulls alongside the
wildly running BLANCHE; the back door is flung open and in
almost the style of a cartoon, two hands reach out and lift
her off her feet and pull her into the car.  They speed away.





The inside of the car, still speeding.  BLANCHE is hysterical.
C.W. is still firing out the window.  The pursuing police
car's driver is shot and the car crashes into a tree.  The
gang is not being pursued now, but CLYDE is driving at 90.
BLANCHE is moaning and crying.  BONNIE, in front, turns
around furiously.


            Dammit, you almost got us killed!





                   
            What did I do wrong?  I s'pose
            you'd be happier if I got shot.


                   
            Yeah, it would of saved us all a
            lot of trouble.


            Buck, don't let that woman talk to
            me like that!


                   (caught in the middle
                   of a bad situation,
                   knowing Blanche is
                   wrong, but trying to
                   soothe her)
            You shouldn't have done it, Blanche.
                   
            It was a dumb thing to do.


                   
            Please, Buck, I didn't marry you to
            see you shot up!  Please, let's go!
            Let's get out of here and leave.
            Make him stop the car and let us out!


                   
            Can't.  I killed a man.  We're in
            this now.


                   
            Please!  Please!


                   
            Shut up!  Just shut up your big
            mouth!  At least do that, will ya,
            just shut up.


            Cut it out, Bonnie.

BONNIE is affronted.  BLANCHE continues sobbing.


                   
            Stop the car.  I want to talk to you.




Without a word, CLYDE stops the car.



BONNIE and CLYDE get out and walk fifteen feet away from the
car.  Both are irritated and touchy.  Camera follows them.


                   
            What is it?


            Get rid of her.


            Can't do that.  She's Buck's wife.


                   
            Get rid of both of them then.


            Why?  What's the matter with you
            anyway?


            She's what's the matter with me, a
            damn stupid back country hick
            without a brain in her head.
                   
            She ain't nothin' but prunes and
            proverbs.


                   
            What makes you any better?  What
            makes you so damn special?  You're
            just a West Dallas waitress who
            spent half your time pickin' up
            truck drivers!

This hits home with BONNIE.  He has said the unforgivable.


                   
            You talk to me like that!  Big
            Clyde Barrow, just the same as your
            brother, an ignorant uneducated
            hillbilly.
                   
            Only special thing about you is
            your peculiar ideas about
            lovemakin'--which is no love makin'
            at all.




CLYDE stiffens.  The two of them stand silent and tense,
almost quivering with anger.  They have stripped each other
raw.  CLYDE turns and looks back at the car.  Everyone is
waiting, watching them.  He breathes a deep sigh, like a man
counting to 10 to hold his temper.


            Look, Bonnie--

He can't finish.

Close.  BONNIE.  She drops her head into her hand for a
moment, comes up a little more relaxed.  She looks at CLYDE
and her eyes reflect the realization of the pain she has
inflicted on him.  She softens.


            Clyde...honey...I didn't mean all
            that, honey.  Blame it on all that
            shootin', I just felt so bad...sure
            enough...Clyde?


            Okay...Okay, hon...let's get
            movin'...

He turns and begins walking back to the car.  BONNIE walks
alongside him.  On the few steps back, she regains all her
dignity and acts aloof from the others waiting for her.  She
reaches the car.  CLYDE opens her door for her and she gets
in like a great lady.  He walks around to his side, gets in,
and they drive off.



A very wide shot.  We see CLYDE's car driving along a wooded
road.  For a moment that is all we see, then we should
become aware that far in the distance another car is
following CLYDE's.

Close. Rural mail box.  On the opposite side of the road,
CLYDE's car swings across the road and CLYDE, who is driving,
snatches a newspaper which protrudes from the box and hands
it into the car.  They drive out of the shot.  Camera holds
and soon the following car enters the shot.  The man driving
is a Texas ranger.  He drives slowly.  He drives out of the
shot.



BUCK is reading from the paper.





                   
            Hey, y'all, listen to this here:
            Law enforcement officers throughout
            the Southwest are frankly amazed at
            the way in which will-of-the-wisp
            bandit Clyde Barrow and his yellow-
            haired companion, Bonnie Parker,
            continue to elude their would-be
            captors.  Since engaging the police
            in a gun battle on the streets of
            Joplin Missouri and slaying three
            of their number...


            Oh, Lord...

We notice CLYDE is wincing.


            ...the Barrow gang has been reported
            as far West as White City, New
            Mexico, and as far north as Chicago.
            They have been credited with
            robbing the Mesquite Bank in the
            aforementioned White City, the J.J.
            Landry Oil Refinery in Arp, Texas,
            the Sanger City National Bank in
            Denton, Texas on three different
            occasions.  In addition to these
            robberies, the fast travelling
            Barrows have been rumored to have
            had a hand in the robbing of two
            Piggly Wiggly stores in Texas, and
            one A&amp;P store in Missouri, though
            Chief Percy Hammond, who first
            identified Clyde Barrow's brother,
            Buck, as a member of the gang,
            expressed some doubt that these
            last robberies were committed by
            the Barrow Gang alone.


            Go on.


                   
            Clyde, we ain't goin' to see a
            restroom for another thirty miles.
            Why don't you just stop here?

CLYDE looks relieved.






He pulls the car to a stop, gets out and goes off into the
woods.  We watch him vanish behind the trees.



BUCK still scanning the newspaper.


                   
            Hey now, here's something!  Listen
            here: Lone Cop Arrests Two Officers
            In Hunt For Barrow.  Police Officer
            Howard Anderson's heart turned
            faster than his motorcycle when he
            forced to the side of the road a
            roaring black V-8 sedan in which
            were three men and a blondheaded
            woman yesterday afternoon.

Everybody laughs.  As BUCK continues to read, his voice
remaining on the soundtrack.



The camera goes outside the car and pulls back, way back, to
reveal a police car quietly driving up behind the car.  The
car stops a good distance away and one man gets out, the
only occupant of the car.  He is tall, dressed in the
uniform of the Texas Ranger.  He draws his gun and slowly
approaches the car from the rear.  On the soundtrack BUCK's
voice continues; as we see all this taking place.


            When he saw several machine guns in
            the car he was certain he'd caught
            Clyde Barrow, Bonnie Parker, and
            maybe Buck Barrow and the third
            unidentified member of the gang.
            It took a lot of telephoning and
            explaining to convince the
            motorcycle cop that his captives
            were two highway patrolmen and a
            blonde-haired stenographer from the
            Highway Patrol--.  Haw!  Haw!
                   (everybody busts up
                   with laughter)


In the meantime, on screen, the lawman is slowly approaching
the back of the car.  Suddenly, cut to shot of CLYDE coming
out of the woods, behind the lawman.  His gun is tucked in
his pants.  In a second, he sees what is happening.




BUCK's voice is continuing:


            Anderson was held up as an example
            for every other Texas peace officer
            today. "That was a mighty brave
            thing," explained Highway Patrol
            Chief L.C. Winston.

CLYDE whips out his gun.  The following scene is played
exactly like a classic fast-draw in an heroic Western.


            Sheriff!

BRYCE spins around.  Both men fire instanteously, but CLYDE
has the draw on him, and the aim.  The gun goes flying from
the SHERIFF's hand.  A really razzle-dazzle display of
grandstand marksmanship from Clyde.

Immediately the gang leaps from the car and surrounds the
man, guns drawn.


            Boy!  What a shot, Clyde!


            Sweet Jesus, I never seen shootin'
            like that!

The gang grabs the man and takes his handcuffs from his belt.
CLYDE makes him lean on the car's hood, arms extended, legs
spread, while he frisks him.  In general, everyone is
excited over the capture.  BONNIE takes the sheriff's gun
and delicately places it on the radiator grill like an
object d'art.


                   (examining the man's
                   wallet, really surprised)
            Well, now, getta load of this.  I
            want y'all to know we are in the
            custody of Cap'n Frank Bryce, and
            Frank here is a Texas Ranger.

Rev. angle across hood--so BRYCE's face, not visible to
CLYDE or anyone else behind him, is in foreground.  His
gnarled, powerful hands tremble slightly on the hood, as tho
they might crinkle the metal like so much tissue paper.  His
eyes stare toward camera relentlessly, unblinking, but
without passion.  They are shark's eyes.  They have witnessed
much carnage, devoured it, and are still wide open for more.





            Sure 'nough, Clyde?


            Say there, peacemaker.  I believe
            you got your spurs all tangled up.
            You're in Missouri, you know that?

CLYDE has been going thru the man's  credentials.  Not so
pleasantly:


            You didn't know you was in Missouri?


            He's lost, this here Texas Ranger.

CLYDE claps BRYCE's hands behind his back, handcuffs him,
spins him around.


                   
            --he ain't lost...them banks are
            offerin' extra reward money fer us,
            and Frank figured on easy pickin's,
            didn't you?
                   (he suddenly knocks
                   Bryce's hat off)
            Didn't you?

BRYCE flinches involuntarily.  BUCK suddenly grows wary at
CLYDE's mood.  CLYDE leans into BRYCE, looking up.


            --Now you ain't hardly doin' your
            job, Texas Ranger.  You oughta be
            home lookin' after the rights of
            poor folks, not out chasin' after us.

He suddenly hefts BRYCE's huge bulk onto the fender.


                   
            Easy there, Clyde.  Why take is so
            personal.


                   
            Reg'lar laws is one thing.  But
            this here bounty hunting, we got to
            discourage that.

BLANCHE looks very uncomfortable.  She starts to say
something, but BUCK intervenes.





            Like how, Clyde?--

A tense moment.  CLYDE can't think of anything right away.


                   
            Shoot him.

BONNIE shoots C.W. an angry glance--it's just what the gang
doesn't want.


                   
            ...hang him?...

Reaction--BONNIE carefully gauging the moment to intervene.


                   
            --uh-uh.  Take his picture.

CLYDE's not sure he's heard right.  Neither is C.W.


            Take his picture?


                   (pointedly ignoring
                   C.W., brightly)
            Then we'll let the newspapers have
            it--so's everyone can see Captain
            Frank Bryce of the Texas Rangers
            with the Barrow gang--
                   
            --and all bein' just as friendly as
            pie.


                   (grasping
                   possibilities immediately)
            ...yeah, yeah...


                   (continuing right on,
                   coyly picking up
                   Bryce's gun from grill)
            --why we 'bout the friendliest
            folks in the world.  Texas Ranger
            waves his big ol' gun at us, and we
            just welcome him like he's one of
            our own.





                   
            Buck, get the Kodak!


                   
            Hot dog!


                   
            We're mighty proud to have a Texas
            Ranger in the family.

BRYCE is obviously not pleased with this turn of events.
Following dialogue is overlapped, ad-libbed, etc.  A sense
of mounting glee at the kind of vengeance they are going to
exact.

New angle.  BUCK is fiddling with the camera, setting up the
shot with CLYDE.  BUCK's following speech should be heard,
b.g., to CLYDE's speech below it.


            ...keep him set on the hood,
            there...more to the sun, like
            that...yeah...when all his ranger
            friends see this...I bet he's gonna
            wish he was dead!


                   
            ...see what come o' your
            mischief?...not doin' your job?
            Down in Duncanville last year poor
            farmers kepts the laws away from us
            with shot guns...you're s'posed to
            be protectin' them from us, and
            they're protectin' us from you.
                   
            --don't make sense, do it?


            C'mon, now, Clyde, you and Bonnie
            first.  Move into him, right close,
            right friendly.


            All righty
                   (to Bryce, whose
                   hands are tied,
                   hemmed in by them both)
            Don't move, now, hear?




CLYDE grandly puts an arm on BRYCE's shoulder, BONNIE,
looking up admiringly from the other side.  BUCK takes the
picture.  BONNIE immediately hops onto the hood, next to



            How's this? "Captain Bryce and new
            found friend."

She coyly loosens his tie, tousles his hair, and plants a
big kiss on him while still ogling camera.


            ...yeah, yeah...quick, Buck, get
            it...


            ...I'm gettin' it, I'm gettin' it.

Quite suddenly BRYCE, whose simmering intensity we should be
more sensitive to than the gang is, spits on Bonnie.  BONNIE
half-screams in disgust, but CLYDE is on top of BRYCE in a
flash, half-strangling on his own fury.  He pulls BRYCE off
the fender by the handcuffs, spinning him around crazily
like a lasso.  BRYCE is literally ricocheted off the car by
the force, and, with CLYDE hanging on by the cuffs, plummets
down the embankment to the sandy beach below, both men
falling, spinning.  BRYCE rises shakily.  He tries to walk
away.  CLYDE grabs him again by the handcuffs and hurls him
out into the water.  BRYCE smacks into a tree stump poking
out of the shallows and goes down.  CLYDE is on top of him.

Meanwhile, BUCK has rushed down into the water, tries to
pull CLYDE off BRYCE.


                   
            I got the picture.  I got the
            picture...


                   
            Lemme be, lemme be...

BRYCE reaches the surface and CLYDE tries to throw him into
deeper water.  He hitches BRYCE over a moldy skiff, knocking
aside one of the oars.  BUCK upends BRYCE into the skiff and
kicks it spinning.  CLYDE picks up an oar and hurls it like
a boomerang, ass over end at the skiff.  It kicks up a spray.


                   (holding tightly to
                   Clyde, yelling)
            I got the PICTURE!




Reaction.  CLYDE waist deep, breathing heavily.


            ...All right, all right...
                   




BRYCE, battered and handcuffed, stares back with mindless
malice from the lazily spinning skiff to the hysterical
spectre of CLYDE, screaming his madness across the water.





Inside the bank.  In contrast to the previous inept bank
robbery scene, this one goes admirably well, the gang
performing slickly and without a hitch.  As they enter,
dripping wet, CLYDE makes a general announcement to everyone
to the bank.


            This is the Barrow gang.
                   
            Everybody just take it easy and
            nobody will get hurt.

CLYDE covers the door.  BONNIE and BUCK go to the tellers'
cages and get money.  BUCK goes inside, emptying out the
cash drawers.  Cut to BONNIE filling the sack.

Cut to a close-up of a burglar alarm button.  Slowly a hand
crawls up the wall and a finger slowly moves to push the
button.  When the finger is about one inch away, suddenly a
gun appears in the frame and gently taps the hand away.  The
camera pulls back to reveal BUCK smiling at a lady teller.


            Don't do nothin' silly now.

Cut to CLYDE standing near the door, training his guns on
the entire bank.  A farmer stands a few feet away, some
bills clutched in his hand.


            That your money or the bank's?


            Mine.


            Keep it, then.




Across the floor, the bank guard in the corner takes
advantage of CLYDE's distraction to go for his gun.  CLYDE
spots it and fires a shot that just knocks the bank guard's
hat off without harming him.


                   (to the guard, who
                   has practically
                   frozen in fear)
            Next time I'll aim a little lower.

They finish robbing the bank.  They start to exit.  Near the
door stands a guard with his hands raised.  He wears sun
glasses of the period.  As they leave BUCK snatches the sun
glasses from the guard's head.


            Get a good look at us!  We're the
            Barrow boys.



The gang runs wildly into the street where the car waits,
motor running.  As they leap into car, BUCK throws the sun
glasses into BLANCHE's lap.


            Happy birthday.

They zoom off.  Shots are heard.  BONNIE, BUCK and CLYDE
begin firing at the bank guards who are pursuing them.  The
guards fire back.

Close-up.  BLANCHE sitting in the back seat with her fingers
stuck tightly in her ears, eyes shut, trying to overcome her
panic.  A funny image, but one that also awakens pity.  The
next sequence is carried out in cross-cutting.



The street in front of the bank.  Police car pulls up and
the excited crowd gestures in the direction of the departed
gang.  The siren starts.





The siren heard now in the far distance.


                   
            Kick it in the pants, C.W.





            We got to make that state line!


                   (driving like a wild
                   man, but adlibing loudly)
            Can't get more'n this out of a
            Plymouth!





The gang has left a legacy of celebrity behind.  We see the
bank guard whose hat was shot off being interviewed by a
reporter.  He is seated in a chair, his shirt open at the
collar and a woman teller is fanning him.


                   
            Then he saw me goin' for my gun.
            Clyde Barrow himself, I mean.  And
            suddenly I was starin' into the
            face of death!


            Tsk, tsk.

A photographer steps in.


            Just look this way, Mr. Hawkins.

The bank guard hurriedly buttons up his collar and smiles as
the flashbulb goes off.





Still speeding along, the siren more distant.





The bank president and a policeman are posing for that
classic picture where both stand flanking a bullet hole in
the wall and point proudly at it.  The flashbulb goes off.








Two men in police uniforms following BONNIE and CLYDE.


            Step on it, Randolph.  We gotta
            catch 'em 'fore they reach the
            state line!





FARMER is describing BONNIE and CLYDE to passersby who dote
on him as though he'd just had contact with a portion of the
true cross.  FARMER is aware of his position.


            Clyde?...he looked like, well he
            looked real...clean...and Bonnie,
            she's too much a lady ever to be
            caught with a cigar in her mouth...I
            don't care what you heard before.
            I saw 'em right here, not twenty
            minutes ago...
                   
            --and all's I can say is, they did
            right by me, and I'm bringin' me a
            mess of flowers to their funeral.





Car slows up perceptibly as CLYDE says:


            Okay, relax.  We're in Oklahoma now.
            Slow down.






            Turn around.  Don't waste no more
            gas.


                   
            Ain't we gone to catch 'em?





            Hell, they're over the State line.
            That's out of our jurisdiction.


            Why don't we get 'em anyway?


            I ain't gone to risk my life in
            Oklahoma.  That's their problem.





Now the gang's car is seen traveling down a long, narrow
country road surrounded by cornfields.





They get out, taking the various bags of money with them,
and dump the lot on the hood.  There is not an impressive
amount of money.


                   
            Hell.  That ain't much, is it?


                   
            Times is hard,


            Well, let's get to it.

He begins dealing and splitting the money out on the hood of
the car, as they gather around.


            This is Clyde Barrow.
                   
            Buck Barrow...
                   
            Bonnie Parker...C.W.
                   (goes back to the
                   first again and lays
                   out another round)
            Clyde, Buck...Bonnie...C.W. Clyde,
            Clyde again...Buck...Bonnie...C.W.

BUCK and BLANCHE stand watching.  BLANCHE looks fretful.
She nudges BUCK and whispers to him.




BUCK whispers something back to her.  Meanwhile, CLYDE's
counting still goes on.


            Bonnie...C.S....Clyde...


                   (very ill at east in
                   this position he has
                   been forced into)
            Um...eh...Clyde?


            Hah?

BUCK is clearly embarrassed.


            Uh, Clyde...well...what about
            Blanche?

Everyone reacts with stunned amazement at BLANCHE's nerve in
wanting to get her cut.


                   


BLANCHE sees she has to rise to her own defense, and she
rises to the occasion with spirit and verve.


            Well, why not?  Say I earned my
            share!  Same as everybody.  I
            coulda got killed same as everybody,
            and I'm wanted by the law same as
            everybody.  Besides I coulda got
            snake bit sleepin' in them woods
            every night!
                   
            I'm just a nervous wreck and that's
            the truth.  And I have to listen to
            sass from Miss Bonnie Parker all
            the time.  I deserve mine!

Close.  BUCK.  Day--looking at CLYDE, his face full of weak
smiles and embarrassment at his wife.


                   
            Okay...okay...hold your horses,
            Blanche.  You'll get your share.




BONNIE is livid but says nothing.  CLYDE, the leader has
decided.  C.W. looks indignant, like a hog who's just been
given a bath.  CLYDE begins counting all over again in near
silence.


            Married a preacher's daughter and
            she still thinks she's takin' the
            collection.

Everyone now laughs, but BLANCHE.  CLYDE continues counting.


                   
            Well, don't spend it all in one
            place now, hear?


            She'll be doin' right well to spend
            it at all.

BONNIE turns and ambles away from the car.  After a moment
CLYDE stops counting and moves after her.  He's prepared for
a fight, stands behind BONNIE's arched back trying to gauge
the degree of hostility there.


            Bonnie?

No answer.


                   
            Look, Bonnie, I've said it and I
            guess I'll keep sayin' it before
            we're thru--Blanche is Buck's wife
            and Buck is family.

He waits expectantly.


                   (finally, utterly
                   without malice)
            --she's such a silly-Billy...

BONNIE looks plaintively to CLYDE.


            My family could use some of that
            money.





            Them laws have been hangin' round
            your mamas house 'til all hours,
            Bonnie.  It's just too risky to go
            there.


                   
            Well, where can we go?  We rob the
            damn banks, what else do we do?

CLYDE cannot really answer.  Suddenly C.W. starts yelling:




CLYDE flinches at the sound.  C.W. comes bounding over, as
rude an assault on their sensibilities as he can be.


                   (wincing as they are
                   nose to nose)
            I hear you, C.W.


            This ol' heap's gushin' oil!  We
            got to swipe us another set of
            wheels right away, or we won't get
            anywhere.  Look here.

He reaches down under the pan of the car and scoops a gooey
handful of slick black oil which he holds before their faces.


            See?

CLYDE nods slowly.  He looks back to BONNIE.  He sees.





A residential neighborhood on a suburban street.  A rather
well-to-do neighborhood.  The camera is up on a porch of a
white frame house, looking toward the street.  On the porch,
sitting in the swing in the left f.g. are a MAN and a WOMAN.
She is about twenty-nine, he is about thirty-six.  He is
sitting with his back to us, embracing the WOMAN.  They are
spooning, making low, loving murmurs.


            Oh, now...now, dear...





            Mmmm...sweet thing...

We see in the distance two cars parked in front of the house.
His and hers.  Suddenly we see another car drive up (BONNIE
and CLYDE) and somebody gets out.  Then the whole gang gets
out, ditches the one car and gets in one of the parked cars.
All the while the couple on the porch is busy spooning.  The
car begins to roll slowly into the street.  The WOMAN notices.


            Say, isn't that your car, Eugene?


                   
            Mmmmmm...huh?
                   (he looks, leaps from
                   the swing)
            That's my car!  Hey!

The MAN and WOMAN run down the front steps and front walk to
the second car.  They jump in and take off, giving chase.



The WOMAN is driving .  The MAN is furious.


            I'll tear 'em apart!  Those punks!
            Steal a man's car right out from
            under him!  Wait till I get my
            hands on those kids, Velma, I'll
            show 'em!

They continue driving, furious, the man cursing and muttering.
We see through their windshield the other car way in the
distance.


            What if they have guns, Eugene?


                   (realizing the
                   possibility, he
                   suddenly stops being
                   mad and turns chicken)
            We'd better get the police and let
            them handle this.


            Right.





            Turn around and let's get back to
            town.  We'll go get the sheriff.

They are by now on a narrow dirt road and the WOMAN has to
execute a U-turn.  It takes her about seven cuts to turn the
car around in the narrow space.  They start back to town.





BUCK looks out the rear window.


            They stopped chasin' us.  They
            turned around.

Close-up.  CLYDE grinning mischievously.


            Let's take 'em.

BUCK and C.W. laugh appreciatively at the reversal.  CLYDE
turns the car around.  He performs the U-turn in the same
narrow space in one, swift, smooth, beautiful turn.





VELMA looks in the rear view mirror and sees that now she is
being chased.


            Oh, my Lord, they're comin' after us.


                   
            Step on it, Velma, step on it!

Close-up.  Accelerator.  VELMA jams it down to the floor.
The car speeds.



BONNIE and CLYDE's car gaining on them, gaining on them,
gaining on them and finally overtaking them, coming up and
ahead, forcing them to the side of the road.

Med. shot.  The MAN and WOMAN's car.  Terrified, they roll
up their windows, lock their doors and huddle together.






The Barrow gang piles out of their car and walks over,
having a merry time.  They surround the car and press their
faces against the window, flattening their features, making
menacing gestures at the shaking pair inside.  We see this
from the point of view of the MAN and WOMAN inside the car.
CLYDE pulls out a gun, makes as if to shoot, but he is
kidding.  They all laugh uproariously, especially BUCK who
is delighted with CLYDE's prank.  All of this we see in
pantomime from inside the trapped car.




            C'mon, get out!  Get out of there,
            I said.

They come out, hands held high, shaking with fear.  They
have practically turned to jelly.


                   (ordering them into
                   the other car)
            Get in here.



They get in and the gang gets in.  Seven people are now
jammed inside.  CLYDE drives, BONNIE next to him, C.W. next
to her.  In back, BLANCHE, then EUGENE with VELMA (of
necessity) sitting on his lap, and then BUCK.  As will be
seen, the reason the Barrows have kidnapped the couple is
simply that they wanted company.  Living as they do, seeing
only each other day after day, they long for diversion and
new faces.  So the atmosphere in the car will shortly change
to one of friendliness and jollity, and it will get
progressively more so in the series of cuts which advance
the time.  As the car starts up at the beginning, however,
the MAN and WOMAN are terrified.


            What's your name?


                   
            I'm Eugene Grizzard.


            I'm Velma Davis.





                   (just as friendly as
                   he can be)
            Well, howdy!  We're the Barrow gang.
            That there is Clyde drivin' and I'm
            Buck.

The MAN and WOMAN almost faint from fear; clutch at each
other.  The gang all laugh at this.  VELMA and EUGENE begin
to realize that they are not going to get hurt and that the
Barrows are friendly to them.


            Look, don't be scared, folks.  It
            ain't like you was the law.  You're
            just folks like us.


                   
            Yeah, yeah, that's the truth.


            I expect you been readin' about us.

The MAN and the WOMAN answer simultaneously with what they
think is the right thing to say under the circumstances.


            Yes.


            No.

They glare at each other.


                   
            Yes, Velma, we have too.


                   
            Well, you two must be in love, I bet.

EUGENE and VELMA blush, get shy for a second.  BONNIE smiles.


                   (gleefully, clapping
                   his hands)
            Well, when you gonna marry the
            girl, boy?

Everyone chuckles heartily.








--still driving, same positions, but some time has elapsed.
The atmosphere is now completely convivial and the captives
are enjoying their new friends.  As the scene starts, BUCK
is finishing his joke.


            So then she drinks her milk down
            again, every drop.  And she looks
            over at her son and says, "Son,
            whatever you do, don't sell that
            cow!"

The couple laughs with great amusement, but everyone else in
the car doesn't laugh--this is the tenth time they've heard
the joke.





--getting on toward evening.  All are thoroughly relaxes and
chatting.


                   
            How old are you, honey?


            Thirty-three.

A sudden look of surprise registers on EUGENE's face.



It is now night.  Everyone inside the car is eating.
Apparently they stopped somewhere along the way for food.
In the crowded interior, it is like a party--food is being
passed back and forth, laughter and gaiety, increasing
warmth between the couple and the Barrows.  The car has
become a little society on wheels, dashing through the black
night down the highway.  Inside there is a small world of
happiness and fun.

BUCK is unpacking the food and passing sandwiches and drinks
around the car.


            Now I ordered some French fries,
            didn't I?





                   
            Yeah, here you go.


            Take it easy on those French fries,
            Velma.  Ain't that right, Eugene?


                   
            This isn't mine.  I ordered mine
            well done.  Who's got the other
            hamburger?

Close-up.  C.W. who has already taken a bite of the other one.


            Oh, is this supposed to be yours?

He extends the bitten burger out to EUGENE.

Full shot.


            That's okay, forget it.

CLYDE laughs at this.


                   
            Haw!  I sure am havin' a good time!
            How 'bout you folks?  Ain't you
            glad we picked you up?


                   
            Hey, maybe y'all ought to join up
            with us.

That idea strikes everyone as being very amusing.


                   
            Ha!  Wouldn't they be surprised
            back home to hear that?


            Yeah.  What would Martha and Bill
            say if they heard that?
                   









            Lordy!  They'd throw a fit!
                   



                   
            What do you do, anyway?


                   (as his laugh begins
                   to fade)
            I'm an undertaker.

Suddenly everyone freezes.  A shudder, as if the cold hand
of death had suddenly touched the occupants of the car.  The
atmosphere changes to cold, deadly, fearful silence in
exactly one second.  It is a premonition of death for the
Barrows, and they react accordingly, BONNIE especially.

Close-up.  BONNIE.


                   
            Get them out of here.



The car brakes to a sudden stop.  The rear down is opened,
the MAN and WOMAN flung out into the darkness.  The car
drives off into the lonely night.

From this point on, the audience should realize that death
is inevitable for the Barrow gang, that it follows them
always, that it waits anywhere.  It is no longer a question
of whether death will come, but when it will.



Moving with CLYDE he tears through the brush, snagging his
clothes, calling BONNIE's name.  CLYDE's search is so
desperate here that for a moment we might think he is
fleeing from something rather than looking for something.

In a moment he emerges onto the road.  The car, with C.W.
driving, and BUCK and BLANCHE beside him, is patrolling
slowly up ahead of him.

CLYDE spots it and runs toward it.  Hold on this angle until
he catches up with it and leaps onto the running board.




Moving shot.  Car.  Morning.  CLYDE, now on the running
board, his head poked into the car, his face apple red and
sweating.


                   
            ...see anythin', Buck?

BUCK is shocked at his brother's desperation, but makes no
overt comment on it.


            --not yet, boy.


                   (with an edge of
                   paranoia, as if the
                   three of them might
                   be withholding
                   something from him)
            --and nobody saw her leave, or
            heard anythin'
                   




CLYDE gets the point.  For the very first time we see CLYDe,
the leader, helpless as he hangs onto the running board.


                   
            ...Well, where do you think she
            could've gone?...Buck?...Buck?


                   
            Jesus, I don't know...

CLYDE looks helplessly at his brother, then drops off the
running board and continues on foot, running along, scanning
the fields--the car keeping up beside him as he runs and we
truck before both car and CLYDE.

Angle on car through windshield.  Reaction shot.  Day.  BUCK
turning to BLANCHE, shrugging his shoulders, speechless.

Reverse angle through the windshield.  Day--at CLYDE, who
has suddenly seen something begins gesticulating wildly,
almost--from car's POV, a little comically.


            There!  There!  There!




He starts running off into a cornfield.

Another angle--picking up CLYDE as he kicks his way into the
cornfield, knees pumping high, knocking down the stalks.  He
stops and picks up the stocking he had spotted, takes it and
moves on.

Still another angle as CLYDE has picked up a freshly beaten
trail through the cornfield.  He picks up one of BONNIE's
scarves, now.  As he runs on, he clears a knoll and BONNIE,
her yellow hair unmistakable even at this distance, comes
into view.  She's far off in the cornfield, stalking off,
looking neither to right nor left, carrying a brown paper
sack that has split, from which she has occasionally lost
clothing.  CLYDE screams, "BONNIE." She apparently doesn't
hear.

Angle on cornfield.  Day.  As CLYDE gets closer.  BONNIE
herself suddenly breaks into flight, the paper bag splitting
completely, the remaining clothes spilling out.  There is a
real chase where they each try to get the advantage.  CLYDE
is so exhausted from his run that he has real trouble
cornering her as they maneuver up and down the rows of corn.
Finally CLYDE catches up.

Extreme close-up.  BONNIE &amp; CLYDE.  Day.  As they tumble
into the stalks of corn, mowing them down.


            Leave me alone!  Leave me alone!


                   (holding her, kissing
                   her frantically)
            Hey...hey, hey, baby, hey, Bonnie,
            hey baby...
                   
            ...Hey, hey now...just where did
            you think you were goin'?...

BONNIE doesn't answer.

Up angle.  POV CLYDE.  As he's momentarily distracted by
BUCK's laughter as he's in the cornfield picking up BONNIE's
clothing.  CLYDE waves an impatient it's all-right-wave.  He
turns back to BONNIE who he still holds tightly.


                   
            --Huh.  Bonnie?  Where?  Where?





            I don't know!  You're hurting me, I
            was just scared is all...and my
            mama's been on my mind, and she's
            gettin' so old...

BONNIE hesitates, beginning to feel a little foolish now.


            Boy, don't ever leave without
            sayin' somethin'.  You really
            scared me, Bonnie.


            But I mean it, though.  I want to
            see my mama.  Please, Clyde.

Two shot.  BONNIE and CLYDE.  Day.


                   (enormously relieved,
                   kissing her)
            Okay, sweetheart.





--of three or four cars parked on the side of a road in
Texas.  A light rain is falling.  There are a lot of people
gathered around, but the sound is an indistinct mixture of
talk, laughter, etc.

There follows a quick montage of cuts which isolate specific
moments in the family reunion, thereby implying the entire
tone of the proceedings.  The sense of family pervades.

Montage.  BONNIE and MOTHER.  BONNIE's mother, an old woman,
grabs her and hugs her and cries.

Montage.  BONNIE, CLYDE, MAN.  A man, an uncle perhaps,
stands with BONNIE and CLYDE, arms around them both, hugging
them to his sides tightly.

Montage.  BONNIE and sister.  BONNIE's sister hands them a
scrapbook of clippings.


            Here you are, we been cuttin' and
            pastin' everything we could find
            about you in the papers.




CLYDE, BONNIE, BUCK and BLANCHE all look at the scrapbook.
We see a page of it, showing newspaper articles with the
photographs the gang took back at the motel.


            Hey look, here's that one I took of
            you, Clyde.  That came out just fine!

Montage.  BONNIE, CLYDE, MAN.  BONNIE and CLYDE are posing
for a comic snapshot.  A silly looking male relative is
posing, pointing a gun at them.  They have their hands in
the air and are grinning broadly.  (The effect should be
funny and simultaneously frightening.)

Montage BUCK, SMALL BOY.  BUCK is sitting with a little
four-year-old on his knee, bouncing him up and down and
singing.  Both are having a fine time.


                   
            Oh, Horsey! keep your tail up, keep
            yer tail up, keep yer tail up, Oh,
            Horsey! keep yer tail up, Why don't
            you make it rise.

Montage--C.W.  A hand off camera thrusts a sandwich at C.W.
He opens the bread to see what's inside it, then eats it.

Montage--BONNIE &amp; SISTER.  BONNIE sits stock-still while her
sister gives her a permanent in the back seat of a car.  He
sister pauses, setting down the curling iron.  She strokes
BONNIE's yellow head with her hand, as though she were a
wild animal that had paused long enough to be petted.
BONNIE turns to see her sister's expression.  They embrace.

Montage--Family picnic--Favoring CLYDE, MOTHER &amp; BONNIE.
CLYDE, in his best theatrical manner has been playing host
in the sand pile, perhaps using some sort of towel across
the arm or around the middle.  The party is beginning to
break up now as used paper plates and crumpled napkins are
blowing across the sand and the group is finishing up on
Eskimo pie.


                   
            Where y'all headed from here?


                   
            I don't know, what y'all got in
            mind?  At this point we ain't
            headin' to anywhere, we're just
            runnin' from.




CLYDE laughs, in fine spirits.

Reaction--BONNIE.  She doesn't.


            C'mon, down, Litte Tom!  We're
            goin' home.  Little Tom?  Mathew,
            fetch Little Tom.


            Don't go yet, Mama.


                   
            C'mere, c'mere you little corn
            roller.

Wide angle.  As Uncle sweeps up the laughing little Tom.

Reaction--BONNIE.  BONNIE turns with increased urgency to
her MOTHER, who, having been hefted to her feet by BONNIE's
sister, has turned to CLYDE, who gives her a big, boyish hug.


            ...you know, Clyde, I read about
            y'all in the papers and I'm jes'
            scared.


                   
            Sugar, make mama stay a while yet.


                   (ignoring Bonnie, as
                   does Mother,
                   ebulliently, even joshing)
            Now Mrs. Parker, don't y'all
            believe what you read in the papers!
            That's the law talking there.  They
            want us to look big so's they'll
            look big when they catch us.

He knows he's stumbled onto the wrong thing, but he bounces
right along--it's his style.


            --and they can't do that.  Why, I'm
            even better at runnin' than robbin'
            banks--aw shoot, if we done half
            the stuff they said we did, we'd be
            millionaires, wouldn't we, old
            sugar.






                   (he turns to Bonnie
                   who continues to
                   stare at her Mother)
            And I wouldn't risk Bonnie here
            just to make money, uncertain as
            times are.  Why one time I knowed
            of a job where we could of make
            $2000 easy, but I saw the law
            outside and I said to myself, why
            Bonnie could get hurt here.  So I
            just drove right on and let that
            money lay.

He waits for a response, as does BONNIE.  BONNIE's MOTHER
smiles, a little abstractedly.


            ...Maybe you know the way with her,
            then.  I'm just an old woman and I
            don't know nothin...

She trails off, looking nowhere in particular.  CLYDE takes
her reaction to mean that he's overwhelming her with his
confidence, and continues to pour it on.


            We'll be quittin' this just as soon
            as the hard times is over, Mother
            Parker, I can tell you that.  Why
            me and Bonnie were just talkin' the
            other day and we talked about when
            we'd settle down and get us a home,
            and Bonnie said, "I couldn't bear
            to live morn'n three miles from my
            precious mother." Now how'd you
            like that, Mother Parker?

BONNIE's MOTHER has undergone a funny sort of transformation
during CLYDE's speech--as if something had suddenly come
into focus before the old woman's eyes.


            Don't believe I would.  I surely
            don't.
                   
            You try to live three miles from me
            and you won't live long, honey.
                   
            You'd best keep runnin' and you
            know it, Clyde Barrow.
                   
            Bye, baby.




She hugs BONNIE who can barely respond.  We move in for a
closeup of BONNIE as her various relatives, young and old
come by to squeeze, kiss and hug her with a chirpy little
chorus of Bye, Bonnie!  Bye, Bonnie, bye, bye, bye.





Hold on the outside long enough to see the unusual
structures: two little motel cabins connected by two
identical garages, an entirely symmetrical structure.



--as she tries, against heavy odds, to file and trim her
nails in a corner of the room.  The odds are; CLYDE on a
uke, b.g., BUCK, and BLANCHE--gathered around C.W. who sits
in the only stuffed chair in the room.  Their o.s.
raucousness is clearly shattering to BONNIE who, at a key
moment in the scene, ends up spearing her cuticle with a
file, spurting a little board and a lot of temper.

Other angle.  CLYDE--BUCK--BLANCHE--C.W.  Day.  A naked
lightbulb  glares down on
C.W.'s chest--where a pair of bluebirds have been tattooed
with a rocco flourish.  BUCK and BLANCHE are vastly amused--
rather BLANCHE takes delight in BUCK's delight.


            How long have ya had it?


                   (like some docile
                   animal submitting to inspection)
            --just got it.


                   (to Blanche, who
                   stares fascinated as
                   one of C.W.'s pectoral
                   muscles contracts and
                   the wings flutter)
            Touch it, honey!  Go on!

BLANCHE squeals with amusement.  BUCK takes BLANCHE's hand
and places it on the bluebirds.


                   
            Oh, no, Daddy!  No!

Reaction BONNIE.  Day--as the file digs into her cuticle on
BLANCHE's squeal.  With barely controlled rage:





            What are you all doin'?




                   (insensitive to
                   Bonnie's stare)
            Playin' with my tattoo, Bonnie.


            Well, why don't you all go play
            with it somewhere else?

New angle.  Motel bedroom.  Day.


            What's bothering her?


                   
            Not now, Blanche.


                   (who doesn't want to
                   be victimized by
                   Bonnie's temperament)
            What's bothering her, Clyde?


                   
            I said go somewhere else!

She picks up the first three objects she can find on the
dresser and hurls them--an ashtray, a Gideon Bible, and a
flower pot--at the little group.  The pot goes shattering
into the wall.  Everyone ducks.


                   (straightening up,
                   matter-of-fact)
            Bonnie's hungry, C.W. I saw a
            chicken place a few miles back.
            Who all wants to go get some food?




                   (rising from her
                   chair, a little
                   shaken at Bonnie's outburst)
            I sure do.  I'm plenty tired of
            sittin' around here anyway.





                   (not making a move to
                   get up)
            You can't drive, honeylove.


                   
            I'll go.

CLYDE makes a face to BONNIE pretending there's something
going on between C.W. and BLANCHE.  BONNIE tries to keep
from being amused.  C.W. moves out with BLANCHE.  BUCK rises
to go next door.


            What's everybody want?


            Just five chicken dinners, and get
            somethin' for dessert.


            See if they got peach ice cream.
                   (he grins and pats
                   his stomach)


All finally exit, leaving BONNIE and CLYDE alone.



C.W. and BLANCHE go out.  We go with them.  They get in the
car and drive off.  BUCK enters his cabin.



CLYDE reaches her, and for a moment both stare with fanatic
intensity at each other, BONNIE trying desperately to keep a
straight face.  They are nose to nose, unblinking.  CLYDE
gives her a big raspberry, waggling his fingers in his ears
like a kid.  She laughs.


            I hate you all.


            I hate y'all, too.


            no, I really hate you.

She turns away from him, wilts onto the bed.





                   
            Oh, baby, I've got the blues so
            bad...

CLYDE moves behind her, begins to massage her back.  There
is something very delicate about the way he touches her; it
suggests CLYDE's sensitivity to her mood rather than any
degree of physical intimacy.


            Bonnie?...is it your mama, what
            your mama said?


            What mama?...she's just an old
            woman now...I have no mama...

BONNIE rolls over on her back, stares up at CLYDE, tears
splaying across her face from the move.


                   
            ...so funny...I thought when we
            first went out, we were really
            goin' somewhere...but this is it--
            we're just goin', huh?

She has addressed this last directly to CLYDE, but there is
nothing rhetorical about it--it is a real question.  CLYDE
doesn't answer for a moment.  Then:


            Do you care about where we're goin'?

BONNIE clearly finds this hard to say:


            Not as long as you care about me.


                   
            Why I love you, sugar.

It's the first time he's said it to her, and BONNIE is
overwhelmed.  She wraps her arms around CLYDE's middle, and
snuggles into him, like a child.  Neither we nor CLYDE can
see BONNIE's face now, and her voice is muffled by his chest.


            --enough to die with me, baby?...
            'cause I think that's where we're
            goin'...I surely do.




CLYDE is both touched and amused by the plea.  He strokes
her head lightly.  Really meaning it.


            --wherever.





BLANCHE, her tense and agitated self growing increasingly
more so lately, lights a fresh cigarette off the butt of the
one she has been smoking.


                   
            You sure smokin' all the time lately.


                   (quick to take
                   offense, snaps)
            So what?


            Nothin'.

BLANCHE, sick of it all, drops her head in her hand with a
sigh.


            Oh, God...

C.W. looks at her, finally decides to say something that
occurs to him.


            Whyn't you go back home to your papa?


                   
            Oh, if I could!  If I could just do
            that one thing!  Oh, there's no
            tellin' why this all happened.  I
            was a preacher's daughter.


            When church is your pa affiliated
            with?





                   (much more interested
                   in talking about herself)
            Baptist...oh, and he thought the
            world of Buck, my daddy did, even
            knowing that Buck was serving time
            in jail.  He forgave him for that
            'cause he paid his debt to society.


            We were Disciples of Christ.



The camera remains stationary in this scene, in this position.
A lunch counter sweeps down the center of the screen.  We
are at one end of the counter.  In the f.g., a DEPUTY sits
drinking coffee, absorbed in his cup.  In the b.g., at the
other end of the counter, by the Exit door, BLANCHE and C.W.
are being handed their order by the counterman.


            Hey, C.W., I ain't got my money.
            Give me some, will you?

The DEPUTY turns his head and looks over there.  C.W. opens
his jacket to reach in his pocket for money.  As he opens
his coat, his gun is clearly seen tucked in his pants.
Camera zooms in to tight close-up of gun.

Close shot.  DEPUTY--his face tense.  Sound of door closing
shut, as C.W. and BLANCHE leave.


                   
            Get Sheriff Smoot on the phone.





On C.W.'s moonlit chest and face, tattooed bluebirds heaving
and occasionally snoring in the night.  Behind him the room
is dimly lit by flickering candles that are placed out of
sight on the floor.  The shapes in the room--the bed is
gutted and only the box mattress remains--dresser, lamp
shades, etc., are grotesque in the flickering light.  O.s.
sounds of BONNIE and CLYDE, BONNIE giggling and CLYDE
whispering something we can't quite hear.

Move across the room toward the gutted bed.  Move giggling
from the floor beneath the box mattress--for a moment it
should appear as if something perversely sexual may be going
on between BONNIE and CLYDE.





            Ready?


                   
            Aw Bonnie--


                   
            C'mon!

CLYDE's arm wielding a Tommy gun, clears the bed.  With the
muzzle, CLYDE knocks the swivel mirror on the dresser
overhead, bringing BONNIE and CLYDE into view.

Closer angle mirror--BONNIE and CLYDE.  Night.  BONNIE lies
stiff as a statue on the white mattress, impeccably dressed
for her funeral.  Candelabras made of empty beer bottles lie
at her head and feet.  BONNIE's hands and face are powdered
and painted a waxen white.  She wears a garish silk bow in
her hair which it, for this occasion, curled like a little
girl's.

CLYDE sits up, beer bottle in one hand, Tommy gun in the
other, derby hat cocked--and just a little unsure of the
whole thing.  He takes a swig--BONNIE stops him, trying
terribly hard not to change her position.


            Lie down now, honey.


            I've done enough!

Angle on mirror--BONNIE and CLYDE.  Night.


                   
            You have to lie down...it's the
            only way we can tell what we'll
            look kike together.

She giggles again, more than a little gassed herself.  CLYDE
clamps a big cigar between his teeth and abruptly lies down
beside her.  CLYDE is both amused and annoyed.


                   (staring up at
                   himself talking with
                   cigar clenched
                   between his teeth)
            Whatta you think?





                   
            That's not the right tie!


            What?


                   
            You can't wear polka-dots on an
            occasion like this.


            Well what--


            Stripes.  Don't go away now.

She weaves her way over to the dresser, takes a swig from a
bottle there herself, checks her makeup, and returns with
the tie.  Holding against his chest to try it out she almost
falls into him.  CLYDE steadies her.


            Perfect.

She tries to tie it for him, and clearly has trouble with
the knot.


            OK, o.k.  If we're gonna do this,
            at least I can tie it myself.  Lie
            down before you fall down.



She does, with some play-acting, exaggerated obeisance to
CLYDE's command--reaching up at the last moment like a
zombie and snatching an artificial flower from BLANCHE's hat
which still lies on the dresser.  CLYDE lies down now.  They
look into the mirror again.


                   
            Better?


            Much.

This tickles CLYDE despite himself and he laughs--BONNIE
begins to sing to him--performing for both CLYDe and her own
image in the mirror--like some hoydenish vaudevillian.




During the course of the song she will rise and take CLYDE
with her who finally joins in when they tip-toe over and
begin to serenade C.W.


                   (to the lugubrious
                   strains of the Death March)
            "Did you ever think when a hearse
            went by,
            That somebody you or I may die?
            They'll wrap you up in a big white
            sheet
            and bury you down just about six
            feet,
            The worms crawl in, the worms crawl
            out,
            The worms play penuckle on your
            snout.
            Your eyes fall in, your teeth fall
            out,
            Your face turns green and the pus
            runs out.

During this last they have been hovering over C.W.'s
twitching face, like a couple of tipsy ghouls, whisper-
singing into his ears.  C.W. finally blinks, doesn't even
bother to look at them.


            I'm gonna die if I don't get some
            sleep.  Quit singing that.

Reaction--BONNIE and CLYDE.  Night.  They smile, go back and
lie down.  Looking at their images:


            All right, shut your eyes now.


                   
            No, you first.


            One for the money.


            Two for the show.


            Three to get ready--


            Four to Go.




As they approach four we should feel that somehow when they
shut their eyes, they really will die.  They shut them on
GO, and screen goes black.



Ranged across the lawn are six police cars, loaded with
peace officers.  Four men come out and, guns drawn, walk
cautiously over to the room on the right--BUCK and BLANCHE's.



There is a knock on the door.  They sit bolt upright in bed.
Before BUCK can say anything, BLANCHE puts her hand over his
mouth to shut him up.


                   
            The men are on the other side.



The four lawmen, among them the DEPUTY from the cafe, edge
their way across the lawn, past the first garage, past the
second.  Before they reach the door of BONNIE and CLYDE's
cabin, the window smashes and there are blasts of gunfire.
One cop is hit and falls, the others run back to the cars
for cover.  BONNIE and C.W. are at the window, firing
steadily.

CLYDE--running into the garage to get the car.  They must
escape.  All they can do is escape, and all they have is
that one car in the closed garage.

Outside.  Two of the lawmen fall to the ground, shot.  As
the remaining two run back for cover, we see a blinding
light rolling up in a space between the six cars.  It is an
armored truck, with mounted guns and and spotlight, advancing
toward the cabin.

Inside the armored truck.  Two men in the seat.  Sounds of
gunshots coming from everywhere, piercing light.  From
inside the truck, we suddenly see the windshield shattered
from bullets fired by BONNIE and C.W.  The driver is hit,
and he slumps over the wheel.  His body hits the horn, which
starts blasting and continues throughout the battle.  The
other man, quickly, ducks under the dashboard for protection.

Inside the garage.  CLYDE standing by the car.  He holds the
Browning Automatic.  The garage door is shaking from the
impact of bullets, shattering.  His gun already firing
 before he gets there.  CLYDE in a crouch
runs to the garage door, flings it up, and runs back inside
the car.  Now the door is open and he can get the car out.




One hand on the wheel, one hand shooting, he rolls the car
out onto the driveway.  The battle is raging from all sides.



The car stops.  CLYDE keeps shooting.  The door of the cabin
flies open and BONNIE and C.W. come charging out, guns
blazing away.  C.W.  fires the Thompson sub-machine gun,
BONNIE fires two pistols with automatic clips.  They run in
a crouch, tryingto get inside the car in front of their door.
They make it.

Camera pans across the motel to the other door.  It opens,
BUCK and BLANCHE come out, holding a double bed mattress in
front of them for protection.  This makes their running
awkward--the mattress is heavy.  BLANCHE carries the front
end, BUCK the back with one hand, the other firing his gun.
They get halfway to the car and then BUCK is hit, shot in
the head.  He falls to the ground; BLANCHE and the mattress
fall too since she has lost balance.  Both are under the
mattress.

CLYDE dashes out of the car and drags BUCK into the back
seat.  BLANCHE follows, hysterical.  All guns on all sides
are still firing.  They fling themselves into the car and
from a standing start, the car starts out at 60 mph down the
driveway.  One of the lawmen stands blocking the way with a
double-barrele rifle, but the car keeps coming, about to run
him down.  He jumps out of the way and fires at the side.
The glass cracks and we see BLANCHE fling a hand to her
face, which is bloody.  A piece of glass has lodged in her
eye.  We hear her scream.  The horn is still blasting.



CLYDE manages to keep it on the road.  They drive away.



The police run back to their cars to give chase, calling out
to each other, unable to believe that the gang could possibly
have gotten away.



as it is speeding down the highway.  Crazy, mad hillbilly
music on the soundtrack.  Packed inside this car right now
is more sheer human misery and horror than could be believed.
It is hell in there, hell and suffering and pain.  The car
is a complete mess.  C.W. is sobbing.  Everyone is hysterical.
BLANCHE is shrieking with pain and concern for BUCK.  BUCK
is alternating between groaning and passing out completely.
BONNIE is yelling at everybody to shut up.




Only CLYDE, driving with both hands clenched on the wheel,
is silent.  The car is doing 90.



The car from the outside, a half hour later.  They have
eluded the police.  They are barreling down the road at top
speed on a nice suburban street with proper homes.  It is
the middle of the night, utter silence.  CLYDE stops the
car, points to ca car in a driveway--it is a beautiful,
shiny new and expensive automobile.  C.W. runs out, runs up
the driveway, peers inside, gets in, quietly backs it down
the driveway and pulls behind the gang's bullet-riddled
getaway car.  Suddenly they both zoom off down the road
together.



C.W. driving alone.  He is crying, mumbling, wiping his eyes
and nose with one hand while he controls the wheel with the
other.



A wide field in the country.  This is Dexter, Iowa.  It is
quiet.  We see, in a long shot that takes in everything,
that this is a meadow surrounded by a ring of trees, a dense
forest that circles them.  The meadow, however, is large.

The two cars drive into the middle of the field, headlights
on.  They stop and the Barrow gang gets out.  They are in
horrible shape--we can finally have a look at them.  Half-
dressed in their pajamas, bloody, dirty, in tatters.  Those
that can stagger out do so, others are carried.  A far shot
of all this.

Closer shot.  Moving closer to them, we see CLYDE and C.W.
lay BUCK down on the ground.  CLYDE begins to administer to
his wounds as best he can, mostly just wiping him off.  BUCK
is semi-conscious.  All are in a semi-daze.  BLANCHE falls
to her knees, still clutching her eyes.  She is totally
hysterical.


            Oh, God, please help us!  Dear
            Father in Heaven, get us out of
            this and Buck will never do another
            bad thing in his life!
                   (she continues
                   moaning, praying, sobbing)


BONNIE walks over to the group, looking at BUCK, C.W. goes
over to her.  Two shot--BONNIE and C.W.





            He ain't got a chance.  Half his
            head blown off.

Camera pulls back to take in BLANCHE.


            My eyes!
                   
            God, I think I'm blind.
                   
            ...light hurts so bad...

BONNIE walks over to the car and comes back with the
sunglasses BUCK had given BLANCHE.  Moving her out of the
glare, she helps BLANCHE put them on.  BONNIE now has an arm
around BLANCHE, and BLANCHE shivers into BONNIE gracefully.
BONNIE is a little repelled by BLANCHE, but comforts her out
of genuine feeling for her.


                   
            Please, please get us to a doctor!
            Tell Clyde to get us to a doctor.
            We'll die here.


                   
            --here, hon'.

BONNIE looks silently up to CLYDE.  CLYDE is looking dumbly
down at his mangled brother.


                   
            Clyde, Clyde, please get us to a
            doctor.

Though BLANCHE cannot see it, CLYDE has knelt down to the
side of BUCK, taking BUCK's hand and with his other hand has
begun smoothing BUCK's hair back, away from the wound.


            He's your brother!


                   (gently, knowing
                   CLYDE will not and
                   cannot answer BLANCHE)
            Buck can't be moved, now, hon'.

BLANCHE's answer to this is hysterical sobbing, burying
herself into BONNIE, mumbling half-coherent, muffled prayers
between the sobs.




With BUCK and CLYDE.


                   
            Clyde?...Clyde?...


            Right here, boy.


            I believe I lost my shoes...maybe
            the dog hid 'em...
                   (he lapses into
                   unconsciousness again)


CLYDE has begun to cry a little, continues to smooth back
BUCK's hair with ritualistic regularity.

Wide angle.  Night.  Camera pulls away, way back to wide
shot of the entire field, showing the group in the center of
the darkness, lit by the headlights.

Match dissolve into early dawn, camera still on the wide
shot.  The field is lighter, though the trees still loom
blackly around it.  The two cars, one almost a shattered
wreck, the other bright and shiny and new, are parked in the
center.  The sky is light, but the trees cast a dark shadow
on the field.  The gang is just sitting around.  BLANCHE
weeping next to BUCK, C.W. sitting on the running board of a
car, staring.  BONNIE standing and smoking.  CLYDE still
with BUCK.

All is quiet.



From the edge of the woods, a man in a white shirt emerges
from behind a tree.  The camera swings abruptly to get him.
He calls out to the gang.


            Surrender!

It is a total surprise.  BONNIE, CLYDE and C.W. all grab
their guns and fire several shots; they are not firing the
big guns now, but the pistols.  The man lingers there for a
moment--he looks strange, white, luminous, like an
apparition--and then he vanishes into the woods.  Silence,
long enough to make you think it was perhaps an illusion.

Then there is a volley of gunfire--a noise so large as to be
almost an impossible sound--coming from the woods, all
around, everywhere.




A ring of little white puffs of smoke emerge from the woods;
from every tree a puff of smoke.  The camera pans in a
circle.  Behind every tree is a man with a gun.  There are
at least 150 people out there--peace officers, farmers with
hunting rifles, kids with squirrel guns, everyone who wanted
to come along and catch BONNIE and CLYDE.  Their number is
so large because this time they want no possibility of the
gang making what seemed by them supernatural escapes.

From this point on, the sound of guns is unnaturally muffled
on the sound track.  We hardly hear them at all..it is like
a dream.

Without a word, all of the gang including the half-dead BUCK
making his final effort, scramble for the nearest car.  They
run, throughout this battle, crouched, like animals--their
only thought, to get away, to escape.  To fight it out would
be ludicrous.

From the moment the Barrows start in motion, there is
shooting again from the edge of the woods.  We see them
scrambling towards the car, in an extreme long shot,
surrounded by the ring of smoke.





All of them inside.  CLYDE is at the wheel.





Med. Long shot of the car moving.  The sound track goes to
complete silence.  We see the car looking for an avenue of
escape.  It veers towards a tree, a man steps out from
behind the tree and fires, the car jerks and veers toward
another tree, again a man steps out and fires and so on.
The car performs its eccentric dance, all in utter silence
.  The film should have the
feeling of slow motion, as the car swerves and loops along
the edge of the woods.  Not once do any of the Barrows fire
back.  Another man steps out and aims.



Close-up.  CLYDE.  At the wheel-shot in the arm.  He grabs
his arm in pain, loses control of the wheel.








--out of control .  It smashes into a tree
stump.  The picture stops, freezes for three beats.  We hold
the image of the moment of crash, with pieces of metal
crumpling and flying into the air, suspended there by the
stop-film.





Sound partly up again, but never at its realistic volume.
From inside the smashed car, we peer out the window across
the field and see the other car.  The thought strikes the
audience at the same time it strikes the gang--they must get
to that car.

Med. shot of the second car, sitting in the field, shining
in the sun.  The lawmen also realize what must be done--cut
off this escape.  Though BONNIE, CLYDE and the others are
heading toward it, they suddenly train all their fire on the
car rather than the gang.

The car fills the frame of the screen.  Bullets begin to hit
it.  It starts to quiver under the impact.  For the next
minute, we see the car die in front of our eyes.  We see the
beautiful machine fall to pieces--windows smash, tires torn
apart, body riddled.  The death of the car is as painful to
watch as the willful death of a human being.  The execution
is paced deliberately to show the ritualistic tempo of the
destruction.



The camera pulls back, way back and slightly above everything
to reveal the entire field.  On the left of the screen,
BONNIE, CLYDE and C.W. are scrambling toward the edge of the
woods.  In the center BUCK and BLANCHE have taken cover
behind a fallen log.  In the foreground, police begin to
emerge from the woods.  The camera zooms rapidly in with
them toward BUCK.  BLANCHE is screaming.


            Don't kill him!  Don't kill him!
            He's dying!

BUCK is making a last feeble attempt.  The zoom continues
past BUCK until it comes tight on his hand, a lawman's foot
steps on his hand.  BUCK falls over.  He dies.  BLANCHE
screams.


            Don't die, Daddy.  Don't die!




She goes berserk.  Five men, one hardly a teen-ager, grab
her and hold her as she writhes and cries.  She is still
wearing the sunglasses.





They have reached the edge of the woods.  Camera tracks with
them as they run.  From all around come the sounds of the
posse.  The three get in through the pines and come finally
to a deep stream.  They jump in and start across, running
awkwardly in chest-deep water.  They are half way across
when the police appear on the bank behind them, shooting.

Close-up.  BONNIE.  Day--as she is struggling through the
water.  A bullet hits her in the shoulder.  We must see this
bullet clearly, we must see it go in her flesh so that we
can feel it.

Tight close-up of BONNIE's face as she screams.  It is the
first time she has been hurt, and the scream is pure animal
pain.  She cries out.



CLYDE, who has almost reached the other side, comes back and
gets her.  He drags her out of the water and into a cornfield
that starts growing on the opposite bank, C.W. helping.  He
half-carries half-runs with her into the cornfield, as the
field gets deeper and thicker.

They stop for a second.


                   
            Saw...saw a farm...up ahead...gotta
            get...a car...

He starts to give over the wounded BONNIE to C.W.


            Baby, no...

But CLYDE has not heard this last.  Working on pure
adrenaline now, he struggles onward.  Camera tilts up
slightly so we can see CLYDE as he essays his way toward a
farmhouse with a car in the distance.  After a few moments
he disappears and we can hear only the cracking of the
stalks as that sound too diminishes,

Full shot.  Cornfield.  Day.  Silence.




Close.  C.W. and BONNIE.  Obviously some time later.  They
both lie prostrate in the field, listening.  C.W. licks his
lips.


            Maybe--


            Shhh!

They wait for another long moment, picking up only the
tiniest sounds.


                   
            Oh, no.


                   
            What?  What?


                   (as though it were
                   the most logical
                   thing in the world)
            I can't die without Clyde.  I just
            can't.

C.W. looks at her as if she's gone crazy.  After another
moment the corn begins to tremble, and we hear the o.s.
sound of an approaching car.

With C.W. Day--tentatively lifting his head up to clear the
corn stalks.  With him we see the car looming larger,
bearing down on us, splitting the corn stalks.  The car
finally comes to a stop a few feet in front of C.W.  BONNIE
is on her feet, and CLYDE tumbles out of the car, practically
before it's stopped, sweeping BONNIE into him.  For a moment
both are in their knees a few feet from the running board of
the car, simply holding onto each other and not moving.


                   (tugging at both of
                   them frantically)
            C'mon!  C'mon!  C'mon!





They have gotten away, but are still escaping.  C.W. is
driving.  He is bare-chested.  CLYDE is beside him in front,
his arm bleeding.  He falls in and out of consciousness.
BONNIE is stretched out in back.




Her shoulder has been bandaged with C.W.'s shirt.  She is
unconscious.



CLYDE comes half-awake and looks over at C.W.


            Head out, C.W.


                   
            I'm goin' home to my daddy's farm.





C.W. is driving down the road, hell for leather.  Nearing a
campsite, where there are about six Okie cars and pick-up
trucks all loaded down, with a number of poor families
seated around a campfire, cooking.  C.W. jams on the brakes.
He gets out, looking totally exhausted.

Reaction shot.  The faces of the Okies, looking at this
sudden presence in their midst.

Back to C.W.


                   
            Can y'all spare me a little water?



One man, the leader of the group, dips a cup of water and
approaches C.W. suspiciously.  He comes close enough to make
C.W. reach out for the water, but withholds it from him.


            Who are you, boy?


            Name's Moss.

This seems to be enough for the man, who gives him the water.
As C.W. gulps it down, the man begins to circle the car,
peering into it suspiciously.  Suddenly he starts and his
eyes open wide.


                   (in really hushed and
                   reverent tones)
            It's Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow.




He stands there struck dumb, staring.  Those of the others
who have heard him begin to come over.  Without a word they
move quietly to the car and stare in.



BONNIE is out in the back seat; CLYDE is semi-conscious in
the front seat.  He looks up through half-closed eyes.



We see a woman pour a bowl of soup at the campfire and bring
it to C.W.  He accepts it.

A man rolls a cigarette and lights it.  Then, very gingerly,
as if afraid to really touch him, he reaches through the
window and places it in CLYDE's lips.  It hangs there, CLYDE
unable to drag on it or remove it.

Children peer through the back window.

C.W. finishes his cup of soup.  He hands it and the cup of
water back to a woman in the crowd.

Quietly, moving together, the Okies step back.  C.W. walks
to the driver's seat, gets in and shuts the door.  He starts
up the car.

The people push a bit closer for a last look.  CLYDE, unable
to do more, nods his head in a barely perceptive gesture by
way of saying "thank you" t ot the people.  The cigarette is
still dangling from his lips.

The car moves off.  A YOUNG BOY pulls on his FATHER's shirt.


            Who was they, Pa?


            That was Bonnie and Clyde, the bank
            robbers.

A woman, nearby, smiles sweetly.





The car pulls up outside the slightly ramshackle farm of
MALCOLM MOSS, C.W.'s father, in Arcadia, Louisiana.  It
sits, for a moment, in the dark.  Then C.W. honks the horn.
A few seconds pass, and the porch light comes on.  OLD MAN
MOSS comes out in his pajamas and peers into the darkness.
He is a fat man with gray hair.





            Who's there?


                   
            Daddy?


            Who's there?  Who is it?


            It's C.W.  It's Clarence.


            Clarence!

He runs down the steps, down the path to his son.  They
greet each other, hugging for a second, looking each other
over.


            God, it's good to see you, boy!

He holds C.W. at arm's length to study him, and suddenly he
scowls at something he sees by the light of the porch.


            What's that on your chest?


                   
            Huh?
                   
            It's a tattoo...I'm in trouble.
            I'll tell you about it later.  My
            friends are hurt.  Help me get 'em
            in.

MALCOLM goes to car and looks inside for a moment.  He walks
back to C.W.


            Jesus, what happened to them?  You
            in trouble, son?


            Yeah.  That's Clyde Barrow and
            Bonnie Parker.
                   
            We been shot.  Help me get 'em
            inside.  We gotta help 'em.

They go to the car and drag the unconscious BONNIE out and
begin carrying her up to the house.





            Why'd you get yourself marked up?
            A tattoo!  What in hell made you do
            a damn fool thing like that?

They reach the house.


            C'mon, Pa, open the door.



Although the scene begins with a full-screen close-up of a
newspaper clipping with a photo, it is just a blurry-gray,
crowded scene of BLANCHE's capture.  Really impossible to
make anybody out in the crowd.  Camera stays on photo as we
hear voice over of two men talking: a sheriff and his deputy.


            I was in the bunch that took 'er.
            See here?  Can you make me out?
            Here I am, see here, right behind
            Joe Boyd here.


            Sure enough, Billy, is that your
            head there?

Camera pulls away, BILLY, a young deputy--cold, intense,
humorless and square, carefully folds up the clipping and
puts it in his wallet.


            Still can't figure how we let them
            other two get away.


                   (an older, more
                   genial type)
            Yeah, seems as how nobody can get
            'em somehow.


                   
            Yeah...well, maybe this boy'll be
            the one to do it, this Hamer guy.
            Boy if he can't do it, Sheriff,
            ain't nobody but the whole U.S.
            Army can do it.





                   (with a new note of
                   enthusiasm, gets up
                   and walks to the
                   window--turning to Billy)
            You hear he quit the Rangers on
            account of Texas got that woman
            governor.  Said he wouldn't work
            under no woman.


                   
            Yeah, that's somethin' all right.
            Say, how many they say he shot
            anyway in his day?


            Sixty-five they say.


            Son of a sea-cook!

The door opens.  We see, full shot and then fast close-up
FRANK HAMER.  It should be a complete shock to the audience--
this is the man kidnapped by the gang earlier and partially
destroyed by BONNIE.

HAMER is dressed in his Ranger outfit and hat, and again he
has that quality of sinister frenzy beneath his calm manner.
His attitude toward these lawmen is sheer condescension,
friendly only out of convention, really superior and
contemptuous of lesser workers in his field.


                   (with politeness
                   arising from condescension)
            Excuse me, am I in the right place?
            Is this Sheriff Smoot?

PETE and BILLY jump up from the chairs and walk over to
HAMER, hands extended.  They are quite impressed by meeting
in the flesh.


                   
            Frank Hammer.  I sure am pleased to
            meet you!
                   



            Hamer.






A coil of rope snaps into and through the paper, splitting
it and revealing C.W.'s startled face.  CLYDE strides the
porch angrily, snapping the rope.

BONNIE and MALCOLM are seated along with C.W.  Through
BONNIE has her arm supported by a sling and CLYDE has his
shoulder bandagedm it is evident by CLYDE's heady indignation
and BONNIE's attentiveness that both are well on the way to
recovery.


                   
            FLED?  What do they mean, fled?
            How in the nama God could I leave
            my brother to die when he was
            already dead when I left him?
                   
            He was shot in too many pieces to
            pick off the ground!  Fled...what
            do they know, the papers or the
            police?...

Suddenly he moves upon MALCOLM with enormous intent, as if
by pounding the point home to the one relative stranger
among them, he will justify it all.  MALCOLM momentarily
flinches, then listens with intense deference.


            Why, while we were all lyin' around
            here, near dead, they had us
            holdin' up the Grand Prairie
            National Bank!  They hung that one
            on us just for luck, I guess.

CLYDE shakes his head, still thinking this over.  Abruptly,
to BONNIE, with deadly seriousness:


            Tell you what.  Soon's we get well,
            we're gonna take that bank!

He breaks into a wicked grin, but then reels, catching
himself on the porch railing.  He's obviously dizzy from
exertion and anger.  BONNIE starts--then sees CLYDE is in
control.


                   
            Whooooooo, boy...
                   
            They don't know nothin'--do they,
            sugar?





                   
            You did all you could, hon'.
            Nobody coulda done more.

C.W. has been studying hard on the torn paper, b.g.  Suddenly:


            Hey.  How come I'm always called
            the "Un-identified sus-spect?"

Group shot.  Porch.  C.W. has trouble with this last phrase.
BONNIE laughs.  This picks up CLYDE's spirits once more.


                   
            You can just thank your lucky stars
            that's all you are.  So long's they
            don't have your last name, you're
            home safe.


                   (toadying to Clyde,
                   talking to Clarence)
            Mr. Barrow's lookin' out for your
            interests, boy.


                   
            Oh...Hey, Pa, how you like havin' a
            coupla big deals stayin' with you?


                   
            Ain't that somethin' for me?


                   
            Well now, you been real nice to us,
            and I tell you what, let us pay you
            forty dollars for your hospitality,
            what do you say?


                   
            No, no, no.  I don't want your
            money.  I'm just pleased to have
            your company.  Any friend of my
            boy's...


                   
            Hey, Pa, let's have supper.  I'm
            hungry.





                   
            Yeah...okay, Clarence...
                   
            You're welcome here, now you know
            that.



They go into the house.  Camera goes with them.  As soon as
they are out of earshot from BONNIE and CLYDE, MALCOLM turns
on C.W. displaying an entirely different demeanor from the
one he presented outside.


                   (indicating tatto
                   which flutters
                   through C.W.'s open shirt)
            You look like trash, boy, marked up
            like that.  Cheap trash.


                   
            Bonnie says it looks good.


            Bonnie, what does she know.  She's
            just cheap trash herself.  Look
            what they do to you, and you don't
            even get your name in the paper--
            just pictures put on your skin, by
            "Bonnie and Clyde"--
                   
            --why they're a coupla kids.


            But, Daddy--


            I'm just glad your ma ain't alive
            to see that thing.

C.W. peeks at it, peering down at his chest, trying to bring
the bluebirds into focus, puzzled.


            I don't see what's so bad about it...



Seated in a soft chair, looking directly at us, is BLANCHE
BARROW.  Her eyes are completely covered with a white
bandage.  She wears a hospital gown.  The room is white and
bright.




Med. shot.  HAMER in the doorway.  The nurse leaves.  He
reaches in his pocket and pulls out a white handkerchief.
He puts it over his mouth to disguise his voice, afraid she
will remember it from the kidnap.  Quietly, almost on
tiptoes, HAMER walks over to BLANCHE.  He gets inches away
from her face.  She still doesn't know he is there.


                   (quietly, but
                   suddenly, his voice
                   muffled by the handkerchief)
            Blanche Barrow.

She starts to her feet, then adjusts to his presence.  She
is a bit panicked.  BLANCHE is now a defeated human being.
Her voice and manner bespeak great weariness, sorrow and
still a touch of her old high-strung hysteria.  But most of
that is gone now, like everything else that was really vital
in her life.


            What?  What?  Who is it?


                   (in a monotone, a
                   relentless questioner)
            You know your husband's dead.


                   
            I know.


            You're going to prison.


            I know it.


            Where's the rest of 'em?


            I don't know.


            Where's the rest of 'em?


            I just don't know.  I don't know.


            How'd you get in with them?





                   (starting slow, but
                   warming up to the
                   subject, she begins
                   to talk and talk for
                   the sake of airing
                   her troubles)
            I didn't mean to.  I didn't.  Buck
            said we was just goin' to visit, we
            wouldn't be doin' no robbin' and
            stealin', and then we went to
            Joplin and all of a sudden they
            started shootin'.
                   (hysteria begins to
                   creep into her voice
                   as she relives it all)
            And we run off, God, I was scared.
            And then it was run all the time,
            and I wanted to go, I begged to go,
            but Clyde and Bonnie and C.W.--


                   
            C.W.  C.W. who?


            C.W. Moss.







It is pouring rain, middle of the afternoon, BONNIE and
CLYDE are inside the car, sitting.  They have lived so much
in cars that they tend to still spend much of their time in
it rather than in a room.  There they are themselves.



BONNIE is in the back seat, her legs wrapped in a plaid
blanket, writing poetry.  She looks like Elizabeth Barrett
Browning.  With one essential difference--her arm is in a
sling and she is wearing bandages on the shoulder.  CLYDE is
in the front seat, reading a newspaper.  He is also partially
bandaged.  On the dashboard is a box of ginger-snaps which
he eats while he reads.  They look domestic.


            Want a ginger-snap, Bonnie?





                   
            No, hum-umm.
                   (then she realizes
                   his nice gesture and
                   smiles warmly at him)
            But thanks anyway, Clyde.
                   (she takes it all in,
                   her situation, and
                   looks content and cozy)
            It's real nice here, just the two
            of us like this.


                   (more interested in
                   his paper)
            Uh-huh.
                   (something in the
                   paper catches his interest)
            Look here, honey, remember this?

He holds up the paper; there is one of the photos from the
motel, the one showing BONNIE smoking.  She looks up at it
with mild interest.


            Yeah, at the motel.


                   
            You sure don't resemble that no more.

Close-up BONNIE.  She doesn't.  She has become totally
fragile, the essence of herself.  She is writing on a pad.

CLYDE and BONNIE.


            What you writin' this time?


                   
            I'm writing a poem about us.  I'm
            writing our story.


                   
            Oh, are you?  Let's hear it.  If
            it's good, I'll mail it in to the
            Law and it'll be printed in all the
            papers again.


            Just let me finish this line.




She does so.  CLYDE munches a cookie.


                   
            Okay, here it is.

Close-up.  BONNIE--as she reads intensely.  At the beginning
of this montage, the camera remains on her face.  Behind her
we see the rain on the window.


                   
            "The Story of Bonnie and Clyde"

            You've heard the story of Jesse
            James--
            Of how he lived and died:
            If you're still in need
            Of something to read
            Here's the story of Bonnie and
            Clyde.

            Now Bonnie and Clyde are the Barrow
            Gang
            I'm sure you all have read
            How they rob and steal
            And those who squeal
            Are usually found dying or dead.

            They call them cold-hearted killers;
            They say they are heartless and
            mean;
            But I say this with pride,
            That I once knew Clyde
            When he was honest and upright and
            clean.

            But the laws fooled around,
            Kept taking him down
            And locking him in a cell,
            Till he said to me,
            "I'll never be free
            So I'll meet a few of them in
            hell."

            The road was so dimly lighted;
            There were no highway signs to
            guide;
            But they made up their minds
            If all roads were blind,
            They wouldn't give up till they died.








The manuscript is lying on the police blotter.  HAMER picks
it up and continues reading it.  He reads it in a halting
way:


            The road gets dimmer and dimmer;
            Sometimes you can hardly see;
            But it's fight man to man,
            And do all you can,
            For they know they can never be
            free.

            From heartbreak some people have
            suffered;
            From weariness some people have
            died;
            But take it all in all,
            Our troubles are small,
            Till we get like Bonnie and Clyde.

Close-up of a newspaper page.  The poem is printed all the
way down the length of one column.  On the sound track,
BONNIE's voice picks up the recitation:


            If a policeman is killed in Dallas,
            And they have no clue or guide;
            If they can't find a fiend,
            They just wipe their slate clean
            And hang it on Bonnie and Clyde.



The day is sunny and we see it through the car window.  She
continues reading, but now she reads it directly from the
newspaper:


            If they try to act like citizens
            And rent them a nice little flat
            About the third night
            They're invited to fight
            By a sub-gun's rat-tat-tat.

            Some day they'll go down together;
            They'll bury them side by side;
            To few it'll be grief--
            To the law a relief--
            But it's death for Bonnie and Clyde.




BONNIE finishes the poem, as camera pulls back slightly to
show that it is a different day, different clothes and the
bandages are gone.  As she stops, she has an expectant and
somewhat self-satisfied look.

Close-up of CLYDE.  His eyes are wide, his mouth open, his
face shows surprise and delight and he is on the verge of a
giant laugh.


                   
            Damn!  That's me!

A great laugh comes bursting from him.  Camera widens to
take in BONNIE.  She is both startled and delighted by his
response.


                   
            In that poem!

BONNIE giggles.


                   (continuing; it is
                   all starting to come
                   out now--his
                   realization that he
                   has made it, that he
                   is the stuff of
                   legend, that he is an
                   important figure)
            A sub-gun's rat-tat-tat!
                   
            Right in the paper!

Close-up BONNIE.  Now laughing too, with a great feeling of
joy.

Two shot.  BONNIE and CLYDE.


            Jesse James!  You hear 'bout old
            Jesse, now you goin' to hear 'bout
            Clyde!

He puffs up with air and explodes like a steam valve.


                   
            Pshhhhhh!

He grabs BONNIE and chuckles delightedly.





                   
            Damn, Bonnie!  You musta been one
            hell of a waitress!

Close-up.  BONNIE--laughing, her eyes filled with tears.
CLYDE's hand wipes them away.

Two shot.


                   (shaking his head
                   back and forth like a
                   puppy, just so much
                   glee in him that he
                   can't hold it)
            Oooooh, that Clyde!  That's my boy,
            that Clyde!

He looks at her with love and delight, hugs her tightly.


            Bonnie...
                   
            The Poem of Bonnie and Clyde!


                   (laughing at the
                   mistake, happy)
            The Story.


            The Story of Bonnie and Clyde!  Oh,
            child, you really did tell that
            story!

He pulls her to him, his face inches away from hers, about
to kiss her.  She is waiting, expecting... Suddenly, he lets
out one wild laugh almost into her mouth.

He kisses her.  She kisses back.  They are chuckling,
giggling.  They grow more ardent; they pull back and laugh
again.  They begin to make love.



Bright afternoon.  Camera across the street from an ice
cream parlor.  Sign about it: "EVA'S HAND-PACKED ICE CREAM."
A large plate glass window fronts the store, and through it
we can see the people inside seated at tables and booths.
Prominent in our vision is MALCOLM MOSS, seated, facing
camera.  He is seated across from another man, but we see
him from the back.




MALCOLM is obviously doing a lot of talking and then some
hard listening; gesticulating and looking disturbed.  After
a bit of this, he rises from the table and begins walking
toward the door.  The other man rises and turns.  We now see
that it is FRANK HAMER.

MALCOLM and HAMER come out onto the sidewalk, squinting in
the sunlight.  MALCOLM mimes some social pleasantries by way
of saying "goodbye," but HAMER's face shows no emotion of
recognition of the gesture.  He turns and walks away,
walking out of the frame.

MALCOLM stands where he is, in front of the ice cream parlor.
By the expression on his face, we can see that he is rather
disturbed by what he has heard and that he is still grappling
with the problem.



BONNIE and CLYDE.  They lie where they were with one
difference--they are now wrapped in the blanket.  CLYDE's
pants are wadded up and tangled with his shoes at the base
of the blanket.


                   (chuckling, apparently
                   quite pleased)
            Damn!...damn...damn!

He casts a sidelong glance to BONNIE, wanting some sort of
overt reaction from her.  She's just smiling slightly.
CLYDE's underlying anxiety begins to surface.


                   
            Hey, listen, Bonnie, how do you feel?


                   (watching him
                   steadily, her slight
                   smile growing)
            Fine.


            I mean you feel like you're s'posed
            to feel after you've uh...


            Just.





                   (doesn't know what
                   the fuck to say,
                   desperately wants her approval)
            Well, that's good, ain't it.
            Reason I ask is, I uh... Well, I
            figger it's a good idea to ask.  I
            mean how else do I tell if I did it
            the way...


                   (stopping him, with
                   great warmth)
            Hey.  You done just perfect.

CLYDE looks at her for the first time, tremendously relieved.
He can see she means it.  Now his buoyancy, utterly,
unchained breaks through:


            I did, didn't I?  I mean I did, I
            really did.  I did it, I did, I
            mean this was my first time and it
            was just like rollin' off a log
            when it comes right down to it, it
            was easy, I mean I didn't even have
            to try...

Lovingly, laughing, altogether overwhelmed with himself,
CLYDE pulls BONNIE into him.  He kisses her, wants to make
love again, but then pulls back and keeps chattering at
sixty miles a minute.  He's waited twenty-three years to
talk about this, and he's got the perfect audience.





After dinner.  There are four empty plates, but only C.W.
and MALCOLM in the kitchen.  C.W. is scraping the bottom of
a wilted "EVA'S HAND-PACKED ICE CREAM" carton.  MALCOLM
studies his son's quiet intensity in this direction for a
moment, then moves very close, whispers when he speaks.


                   
            Boy, they expect you to go downtown
            with 'em tomorrow?


                   (out loud, licking
                   his ice cream)
            Who?





                   (raising his own
                   voice, infuriated by
                   his son's obtuseness)
            Bonnie and Clyde!...
                   (he slaps the carton
                   out of C.W.'s hands;
                   whispering again)
            Bonnie and Clyde.


            Sure, I always go with them.

MALCOLM thinks hard about this.


            ...better go then, you better go,
            better go...
                   (forcing C.W. to sit
                   at table)
            --but when they get back in the car
            to come on home, don't get in with
            them.


                   
            Why, Daddy?


            You just listen to your Pa fer once!
            Cain't you do that?  I'm yore
            Daddy, I'm your kin, not Clyde.


                   
            Well, what should I tell 'em? "I
            can't get back in the car with you?"

MALCOLM is ready to kill--his son's obtuseness and his fear
of CLYDE is whipping him into a quiet frenzy.


                   
            No, you tell them nothin', hear?
                   
            I made a deal and got you off with
            a coupla years!


                   
            Made a deal with who, Daddy?




MALCOLM hauls off and whacks C.W. across the top of his head
with the flat of his hand, then momentarily holds his hand
over C.W's mouth.


                   
            ...the law.  Just don't get back in
            that car.
                   
            And whatever you do, don't let onto
            them, hear?

C.W. suddenly smiles, as if he knew something.


                   
            Whew!... You think them laws are
            gonna catch Bonnie and Clyde in town?

C.W. returns to the ice cream carton--MALCOLM lets him,
figuring he better find out what he can.


            What do you think, Clarence?


                   
            They ain't gonna catch 'em.  Don't
            matter whether I let on or not.


                   
            Mebbe.  Just you be off'n the
            streets of that town when they go
            to get in their car.


                   
            Nobody catches Clyde.  Clyde's got
            a sense, don't you know that, Daddy?
            Nobody catches Clyde.

MALCOLM knows better, but for just a moment he stares at his
son, fearing that maybe C.W., for all his limitations, has a
sense about CLYDE's sense.  C.W. has finished with the
carton and crumples it, licking the last remnants of cream
off his fingers.



BONNIE and CLYDE's bedroom, the middle of that night.  Both
are wide awake, lying on opposite sides of the double bed.
Both are staring into the night, disquiet.





                   
            Bonnie?  Bonnie, will you marry me?

There is a silent gasp from BONNIE, a barely perceptible
stiffening.  Then she talks in a voice falsely formal, still
staring up at the ceiling.


            How could I do that, Clyde?  You
            know it's impossible.  We'd have to
            go to a Justice of the Peace and
            the Justice of the Peace is a
            lawman.  We couldn't even take out
            a license.


                   
            Hey now, you sound like you been
            givin' it some thought on your own.


                   (with a grim irony,
                   her voice getting
                   more and more emotional)
            Oh no, I never gave it thought.  I
            haven't thought about it at least
            ten times a day, I haven't thought
            about it every minute of my life
            since I met you.
                   (suddenly her voice
                   cracks into tears)


She flings herself violently across the bed and buries
herself into CLYDE's chest, her knees drawn up, her head
tucked down into him, her body shaking with sobs.


                   (a bit startled by
                   this, attempting to
                   hold her, awkwardly,
                   and placate her.  He
                   puts his arm around her)
            Bonnie...are you crying, honey?

BONNIE nods yes and slowly gets control over her tears.


                   (her face still
                   buried in CLYDE's
                   chest, she whispers)
            Clyde, why do you want to marry me?




CLYDE thinks a minute and then grins.


                   
            To make an honest woman out of you.

BONNIE is silent.


                   (finally, in a voice
                   charged with
                   anticipation and dream)
            Clyde...what would you do, what
            would you do it some miracle
            happened and we could walk out
            tomorrow morning and start all over
            again, clean, with no record, with
            nobody after us?

CLYDE thinks about it a minute.


            Well...I guess I'd do it all
            different.  First off, I wouldn't
            live in the same state where we
            pull our jobs.  We'd live in one
            state and stay clean there, and
            when we wanted to take a bank, we'd
            go to another state...and...

Suddenly he realizes that he has said the worst thing he
could have, that it was not the answer BONNIE wanted to hear.
He looks down at her, his voice anxious.


                   
            Bonnie?

She is silent.


            Hey, Bonnie?

But she does not answer.



We see MALCOLM jacking up the back wheel of his pickup truck
which is parked on the side of the road in a wooded area.








A street in Arcadia.  The car is parked.  BONNIE and CLYDE
walks toward the car carrying big bags of groceries and
supplies and put them inside.


                   
            What happened to C.W.?


            He stopped off in that hardware
            store to get light bulbs for his
            daddy.

CLYDE opens the door of the driver's seat and sits down.




            Boy, my feet are sweatin'.

He takes off his shoes.


                   
            You plannin' to drive with your
            shoes off?


            Sure, why not?

He reaches in his shirt pocket and takes out his sunglasses.
As he goes to put them on, one of the lenses falls out.


            Damn!

He puts them on.


                   
            You gonna wear 'em?


            Sure, drive with one eye shut.

BONNIE gets in the car, rummages around in one of the bags
and pulls out something wrapped in tissue paper.  She
unwraps it and puts it up on the dashboard, displaying it.
It is a little porcelain shepherdess holding a crook in her
hand, worth about thirty cents.





                   
            Isn't that the prettiest thing, hon?
            Just look here, you can see every
            little fingernail on her hands.

She shows him.


            It is a pretty thing, honey.

CLYDE turns on the radio and gets some hillbilly music.
They are singing "Little Church in the Valley."  He beats
time on the steering wheel, getting a little impatient.
BONNIE puts her shepherdess away and begins looking in the
grocery sack.


            We got any peaches?  I sure could
            go for a peach right now.

She burrows in the bag and comes out with a peach.  She
takes a big bite.  The juice drips down the side of her
mouth.  She looks beautiful.


                   (he stops drumming
                   his fingers, suddenly
                   has an idea)
            Whyn't we do it tomorrow?


            Do what?


            Tomorrow's Sunday, ain't it?  We
            could drive all night and be on
            that golf course tomorrow morning!


            You sure you feel up to it?


                   
            Yeah, why not?
                   (now feeling anxious
                   and excited, he is
                   impatient to move)
            Where is that boy?  He's gone too
            long.





                   
            He'll be here.
                   
            You take a bite, hon.


                   
            No, it's takin' too long.  What if
            something happened?


            Nothin' happened.


                   
            Go take a look, see what's keepin'
            him.

Not too delighted with the chore, BONNIE goes off.  We
remain with CLYDE, getting anxious.  The music plays on.
BONNIE comes back, hurriedly, now anxious herself.


            He ain't there.

CLYDE jumps into action, slams his door.


            C'mon, let's go.

BONNIE gets in.  They drive off.



--hiding inside a store, peering out through a curtained
window at them driving away.  His expression is disturbed;
his face half in shadow.



BONNIE and CLYDE's car coming down the road.  Camera sees
from CLYDE's P.O.V.  MALCOLM standing in the road, waving
him down.  The pickup truck, its back jacked up, is parked
beside him on a shoulder of the road.




            What's wrong?


            I don't know.






CLYDE reaches the spot, pulls off the road and stops the car.
He gets out.  Camera pulls back.  CLYDE talks to the old
man, BONNIE stays in the car.  Cut to a shut down the trench
of the law, tense.

Suddenly, a truck loaded with chickens comes riding down the
road from the opposite direction.  HAMER sees it from a long
way away and realizes that he cannot afford to let anything
pass between him and his quarry.  He decides the time is now.
He leaps up from the trench and yells at CLYDE.


            Barrow!

The OLD MAN dives under his truck to hide.  The shooting
starts.

We see the chicken truck.  Two men in the front seat.  They
see ahead of them an incredible shooting match and, in
terror, they jam on the brakes and leap out of the truck.
They run as fast as they can into the meadow, away from the
trouble.

The gun fight takes just seconds during which law fires
eight-seven shots at BONNIE and CLYDE, giving them absolutely
no chance.  The sound is rapid, deafening.

At no point in the gun fight do we see BONNIE and CLYDE in
motion.  We see, instead, two still photographs cut into the
sequence: one of Clyde, half out of the car, taking careful
dead aim with his gun, just as he did in the teaching scene:
one of BONNIE, in terror, a pack of cigarettes in her hand
clutched tight, looking as fragile and beautiful as she can
be.

The noise stops at once.  Utter silence.  It has been a
massacre.  BONNIE and CLYDE never had a chance to return the
gunfire.  We see the car, a complete shambles.  We never see
BONNIE and CLYDE dead, though for a moment we discern their
bodies slumped in the car.

The camera pulls above the car until it is on a level with
the opposite side of the road.  Then, slowly, the six lawmen
stand up in the trench.  On the faces of the five deputies,
horror and shock at what they have just done.  HAMER,
however, registers no emotion.  His face is a blank.  He
lights a cigarette.  Slowly, slowly, the five men begin to
edge closer to the car to see the result.  Music, the wild
country breakdown music, begins on the sound track.




Before they reach the car, the camera swings away from them,
past them, and zooms out and above into the meadow where the
two truck drivers are standing--tiny, distant figures.

The truck drivers begin to walk toward the camera, coming
back to the road to see what happened.  They get closer and
closer to the camera until they have reached a middle
distance and, as they continue to walk at us, it is--









<!--Ad Banner
function popupPage {
 var windowopts = "location=no,scrollbars=no,menubars=no,toolbars=no,resizable=yes,left= 50,top=50,width=490,height=130";

 popup38625 = open;
 popup38625.focus;


popupPage;

//  Ad Banner-->


