





                  Written by

                 Lucinda Coxon



             Based on the novel by

               David Ebershoff
              








A rectangle of ferociously stormy sea viewed from battered
cliffs. Silver waves are whipped by a wind that flies at us,
stinging, relentless. Somewhere, unseen in the barren
landscape, something is at its mercy - we hear the RUSTLE and
PUNCH of the weather going at it...






The same scene reflected across the surface of a woman's
brown eye, intense with emotion, curiosity. Gradually, the
WEATHER SOUNDS are overtaken by VOICES coming up. At first
the SOCIAL CHATTER is PERIPHERAL, then the VOICES grow more
STRIDENT, OPPRESSIVE. The eye blinks.




A painting of the same sea, captured with remarkable accuracy
of feeling. A HUBBUB OF GABBLING VOICES. Too many people in
a low-ceilinged room. One voice dominates now -


           Don't you wish you could paint like
           that?

We pull out to see GERDA WEGENER'S brown eyes shift from deep      *
scrutiny of the painting to polite social focus as she takes
in an excited OLDER WOMAN.


           I'm sorry...?


           I said, don't you wish you could
           paint like your husband? Really - you must
           be so proud...

The woman smiles and heads into the crowd, leaving Gerda to
consider... Gerda's gaze travels across the well-dressed
gathering. Far off in a corner, there's an inner circle
where her handsome husband EINAR WEGENER is being showered
with praise. A portly goateed man dominates the scene -
RASMUSSEN, Einar's dealer.


           They're all Veijle, where he grew
           up.






Gerda begins walking toward them through the throng...

                       RASMUSSEN 
             And I don't say my client is
             the best landscape artist in
             Denmark... but, he is in the top
             one!

Einar cringes as the crowd laughs, delighted. An exotic-
looking woman with mischief playing on her full lips
approaches Gerda. This is ULLA FONSMARCK. They're friends.


                 
             It's going very well.


             Oh yes.   He'll be impossible.

The women LAUGH. As Gerda looks up, Einar looks across,
smiles, trapped in his corner. Gerda nods back, reassuring,
conspiratorial. Then Einar's pulled back into the select
circle and Rasmussen emits a ridiculous barking LAUGH.




Gerda and Einar, arm in arm, LAUGHING. Gerda wears a
distinctively embroidered fine wool wrap. Their FOOTSTEPS
ring down the empty street. A patina of crystallised brine
coats doorways, windows, scintillating in the moonlight.


             And Rasmussen...


             Oh, come on. Be kind.
             At least he agreed to see your work.



             Only because he was drunk!


             I know.


             You were loving it!


             I was not.

She mimics Rasmussen, his ludicrous excitement:


             "I don't say my client is the best
             landscape artist in Denmark..."







             "But..."


             "He is in the top one!"

They LAUGH hard.     Someone calls from an upstairs window:


             Hey - people are sleeping!

The window SLAMS. Gerda and Einar struggle to quieten down,
head for the dancing harbour lights - partners in crime.






Fishermen selling straight off the boats to early-rising
customers. Prices are loudly negotiated as the silver catch
still writhes and flaps. A city coming to life.




Gerda carries in a breakfast tray. Einar sleeps. She observes
his face: long eyelashes, cheeks hollow in repose, delicate
lips. A little dog, HVAPPE, trots beside her. She puts down
the tray and throws back the bedcover. Einar blinks in the
light, surprised. He stretches, takes in the silhouetted
outline of his wife: tall, purposeful Gerda.


             Do you know what time it is?

He smiles, sweetly suggestive of pleasure to come...


             Time you came back to bed?


             No - I'm ready to start work.


             Draw down the blinds.

She holds back, teases a little.


             I told you, I...


             Gerda...


             What?






She takes him in, smiling up at her.     Shakes her head.

                       GERDA 
             Your face... You think I can't resist
             you...


             Do you want to resist me?

She approaches the edge of the bed, smiling herself now.


             No. But I'd like you to ask nicely
             so I don't feel such a pushover...

Einar reaches towards her.


             Gerda Wegener - my life, my wife...

He pulls her into bed... A skittish piano comes up as they
laugh, begin to make love. Continues over:




Einar crosses the road, heads for the Opera House.




Einar greets the doorman, THORBJORN.


             Thorbjorn.


             Mr Wegener.




Einar walks between racks of clothes that hang in two tiers
so the ruffled and feathered hems of jewel-coloured gowns
brush his cheeks. An explicit sensual pleasure, which Einar
is conscious of but feels no need to investigate. He pauses.
The ARIA ceases, he hears women CHATTING, sometimes DROPPING
THEIR VOICES, emitting DIRTY LAUGHS, which make him smile and
wonder. A stolen intimacy. Einar spies on Ulla, below -


             Tighter!

Ulla is being pulled into a corset by a DRESSER. Einar leans
forward for a better view... She spots him - is delighted,
breaks free for a moment.







                       ULLA 
             Einar Wegener!

The DRESSER hands Ulla a robe to cover up, but:

                       ULLA 
             Oh don't worry about him - he's only ever
             had eyes for one woman.


             My guilty secret's out.

He smiles at her, indulgent.      She calls up to him -


             So - when are you two going to breed me a
             godchild?


             You're an atheist.


             I'll reconsider.


             We're trying.


             Try harder. I've been waiting an eternity.
             Have you tried drinking raw eggs?


             No.


             Do it.   For my sake.

Einar shakes his head.     She's impossible and he adores her.

                       ULLA 
             Anyway what are you doing in today? I
             thought you finished last week?


             I wanted to check on the scrim for the
             storm scene. And give Gerda some space.


             Ah - she's got a shy one.

Einar nods, smiles.     Ulla prepares to resume her fitting.

                       ULLA 
             You know I'm next?


             So I heard.







             I won't be shy.


             I should imagine not.


             Good God, she'll need all her colours for
             me!

They LAUGH and Ulla signals to the dresser to pull at the
corset once more, smiles in delighted anticipation of the
discomfort to come.




MR FONNESBECH in a chair on a slightly raised dais. He is
formally dressed, somewhat stiff. The room is oppressively
still. Gerda looks up from her canvas, goes to adjust
Fonnesbech's arm. He is clearly affected by being touched,
embarrassed. She returns to the canvas. After an
uncomfortable couple of moments:


             I wanted to say... I appreciate our being
             alone today. I hope your husband doesn't
             mind.


             Not at all. I could see his being here
             made you uncomfortable.


             It wasn't personal.

Gerda smiles.      Shakes her head - he shouldn't worry:


             It's not uncommon.


             Ah.

Fonnesbech's relieved.     Though he's left with questions.


             It's hard for a man to be looked at by a
             woman. Women are used to it, of course,
             but for a man...

Mr Fonnesbech begins to look wildly vulnerable.

                       GERDA 
             To... submit to a woman's gaze.   It's
             unsettling...

Fonnesbech nods, relieved - that's exactly it.





                       GERDA 
             Although I believe there's some pleasure to
             be had from it, once you...

She smiles mischievously.

                          GERDA 
             ...yield.

Fonnesbech swallows, cheeks pinking.       Suddenly:

                          GERDA 
             Sit!

Fonnesbech flinches.       The dog settles.   Fonnesbech exhales.

                          GERDA 
             Good girl.

Gerda returns to work, eyes glinting at what she's revealed
in her sitter: finally getting somewhere.




A CHINESE LAUNDRESS with a large wheeled cart makes her way
along the street, RINGING a pair of little BELLS as she goes.




Einar quickly but carefully folds Gerda's chemise and puts it
in a bag of laundry, hurries to open the door...




Einar hands the bag to the laundress as she passes.




Gerda at the mirror, putting on her lipstick. Einar comes
in, reacts, seeing her dressed up. She's self-conscious.


             Well?

Einar can't help smiling at her implied self-criticism.


             Perfect.    Almost.

He approaches, uses his thumb to gently blend away a smudge
of lipstick from her bottom lip. He nods. Perfect now.

                       EINAR 
             Good luck...







Gerda carries her heavy portfolio, optimistic, brisk.




Rasmussen's face - a look of slight distaste. A sea of
Gerda's work, on the desk, the floor - competent but
uninspiring naturalistic depictions of society figures.


          All portraits...

Gerda hesitates a beat, the fact being so self-evident.


          Is that bad?


          Not per se, but... this kind of work is not
          really my...

He winces a little.   He has to end this:

                    RASMUSSEN 
          Gerda... I don't think it would benefit
          either of us to show these.

A vein begins to throb in Gerda's neck.

                    RASMUSSEN 
          It's not a judgement on your abilities - I
          agree with Einar: you could be a first
          class painter if you found the right
          subject matter.

It's the first time Gerda's heard this.     Her eyes shine,
stung, betrayed.




Einar works, hears the door. Gerda brings in the portfolio,
sets it down, starts taking off her coat. Einar's tentative:


          How was it?


          Fine.

He waits for more, but nothing comes.


          I finally mixed the right colour for the
          snow.






Gerda glances at the canvas, hostile.


             Another view of Vejle. I don't know how
             you can paint the same thing over and over.

Einar misses a beat.


             I suppose I just haven't finished with it
             yet.

Gerda heads towards the door.

                          EINAR 
             Gerda..?


             Could you please not speak to Rasmussen
             about me again... My work is my business.
             Stay out of it.

But she disappears into the bedroom, the door slamming
emphatically behind her. Einar's left bewildered.




Gerda's already regretting the exchange with Einar. She
unfastens her dress, pulls it off. There's a bloodstain in
her underwear. Damn! She breathes.




Einar working as Gerda reappears. She's composed now,
refocused, approaches her easel, organises her paints.      Einar
steals a look at her, but says nothing. Works on.
Eventually:


             I have my period.


             I'm sorry.


             Are you?

She turns to find him approaching.


             Of course I am... You know I am.

A moment of quiet intimacy between them. Gerda shies away,
returns to present concerns... her work...








             Could you help me with something?

Einar's relieved to be able to help.


             Anything.


             Ulla has an extra rehearsal. She cancelled
             again. Would you try on her stockings and
             shoes?

Einar's discomfort erupts in a laugh.       Is she serious?

                       GERDA 
             I'm just so behind. I don't know how I'll
             be finished in time for her opening...

But he cuts her off:


             I'll do it. It's fine.

Gerda sets a shoebox and the stocking on the sitter's chair,
goes into the kitchen. Einar moves the box and stockings,
sits in the chair on the dais. The dog leaps up -

                       EINAR 
             No... no, not now Hvappe...

He pushes Hvappe down, tests the mesh of the stockings between his
fingers. He rolls up his trousers.

                       EINAR 
             He almost snagged this...

Gerda marvels at his delicacy. Scolds the dog:


             Hvappe...

Gerda mixes paints.      Einar battles with the stockings.

                       GERDA 
             That's backwards...

He fiddles with the second stocking now, a light sweat dewing
his forehead by the time he's rolled both to the knee. He
opens a shoebox: - the yellow pair from the shop window.


             I saw these in the window of
             Fonnesbech's...


             Smart aren't they?







             I don't think they'll fit...


             Well just do what you can.

He takes them out... Something catches in Einar's throat as
he pushes his toes into the shoe. Gerda's eyes are narrow as
she starts work. Einar looks down at his feet, partly
contained in the yellow suede, the disjuncture between the
body above and below the knee... he breathes... can't keep
his hands steady. Then:

                        GERDA 
             No.   I need the dress.

They both look over to where Ulla's dress hangs. It is white,
weighted with beads at the hem and cuff. Beautiful.


             Gerda, I'm not putting it on.


             I haven't asked you to.

She get sit... lays it across him.

                       GERDA 
             Would you just relax...? The sooner I
             start, the sooner I finish.

Einar yields reluctantly, as Gerda runs her fingers gently
down his face. Satisfied, Gerda returns to work.

Einar's breathing feels slightly laboured now. The dress
weighs heavily. His head moves slightly, feeling it brush at
his neck. His fingers curl involuntarily around the beaded
cuff. The SOUNDSCAPE becomes heightened: the creak of
Gerda's easel, the jangling of her bracelets, the sound of
the harbour, the wind in the ships' riggings. These combine,
fill his head... until:


             Well hello, there!

Einar starts... Ulla's in the doorway, delighted, with a huge
bunch of lilies. She starts to LAUGH, and because it's Ulla,
Gerda LAUGHS also. The dog YAPS, excited, confused. Einar's
disoriented. Gerda sees this, stops laughing, but...

                       ULLA 
             Oh, don't worry my darling...

She hands the flowers to him, kisses him:

                       ULLA 
             We're going to call you Lili...






Einar manages to laugh now as the dog runs BARKING in
circles, Ulla's delight banishing the day's frustrations.




There are lights on in the Widow House.




Gerda closes the book she's been reading, looks up to see
Einar, working, engrossed. An almost trance-like state. She
watches him a while, then approaches, rests her head against
his back. He's comfortable with this, but works on.


             Such concentration. Sometimes when you're
             working, I think you're going to slip
             through the surface of the painting and
             vanish.

He smiles a little.

                       GERDA 
             Sink into the bog. Like your friend's kite
             when you were a boy.


             Hans.   It was Hans' kite I crashed.

Einar enjoys the memory for a moment.

                       EINAR 
             Poor Hans. He was so proud of it...
             I couldn't believe he even let me
             have a turn...


             He's probably still sitting on a
             rock, sobbing his heart out.

Einar sets down his brush, turns toward her, away from his
work, smiles.


             He's a dealer in Paris, peddling
             Old Masters to rich Americans.


             Oh. So we don't need to worry
             about Hans.


             No we don't.

He takes her in.







             I didn't mean to disturb you.


             That's okay. I've finished.

He kisses her.

                       EINAR 
             And don't worry, I won't disappear into the
             bog.

He widens his eyes, surprised at his own realisation:

                       EINAR 
             The bog is in me, silly.

She pushes him off, LAUGHING.




Einar's in bed. Gerda pulls off her dress, looks round to
see him watching her as she lays her stockings over the chair
beside her dressing table.


             What?


             Can't a man watch his wife get undressed?

She goes to take off her lace-edged slip, self-conscious now.

                       EINAR 
             That slip is new...


             You're very observant.


             Leave it on...

She hesitates, but Einar pulls back the sheet... Gerda keeps
the slip on, climbs in beside him. He strokes her body
through the silk...

                       EINAR 
             It's very pretty...


             I might let you borrow it.

Einar shrugs, rising flirtatiously to the challenge.


             I might enjoy that.






Gerda LAUGHS, and Einar kisses her.      She teases:


             Oh really...? Is there something you'd like
             to tell me?


             Why...? Is there something you'd like to
             know...?

His fingers trace, quivering, over her...


             No... I'm your wife.    I know everything.

Einar thrills, pulls her on top of him, a fresh passion,
fresh risk about their union.




A champagne cork POPS. Ulla's triumphant first night. She's
on magnificent form, working the room. Gerda's portrait hangs
in pride of place. Gerda and Einar chat with a group that
includes their friends NIELS and ELSA. Ulla swoops in,
WHISPERS something in Gerda's ear. Gerda's eyes register
delight as she looks across at two young men on the other
side of the room.


             Both of them...?


             And at the same time!

Einar laughs.    Gerda shakes her head.

                       ULLA 
             Married people are so delightfully easy to
             shock.


             We just pretend to be shocked because it
             encourages you.


             I know. That's why you're the only
             couple in my party for the Artists
             Ball...


             Out of the question.


             Oh, I know Einar hates it, but he'll have
             to bear with us.








             She can go without me.


             Gerda without an escort?   It would be a
             scandal.


             Gerda loves a scandal.


             You've had too much champagne.

Niels and Elsa hear this, tune in...


             Look at the way she dresses, flaunting her
             ankles. An invitation to corruption.


             I don't think anyone is likely to be
             corrupted by seeing my ankles.


             I was.

The group laughs delighted by Einar's buoyant mood.

                       EINAR 
             The first time we met, I was leaving the
             Academy, and she was on the steps,
             flaunting said ankles... And she
             propositioned me!


             Is that true?!


             It was a dare. But when I said hello to
             him, he actually blushed! He was so shy! So
             I asked him out.


             And you said yes -

Einar scrutinises Gerda.


             She made me. She seemed so sure.


             I was sure. I still am.


             Oh please - enough!

Elsa elbows him, turns to Gerda.







             No - what was it about him?

Gerda looks at Einar.


             I don't know...

She remembers, drawing Einar into the recollection.

                       GERDA 
             But we went for coffee, and after, I kissed
             him... and it was the strangest thing... it
             was like kissing myself.

A look between Einar and Gerda, a connection crackling.


             Well these two won't be staying much
             longer...


             Unmarried people are so delightfully easy
             to shock.

She and Einar smile, make their way towards the door.




Einar comes in, Gerda's already in bed.    He starts to
undress, turns out the light.


             Turn it back on.

He looks at her. She shrugs, smiles - it's her turn, after
all... He turns it back on, a little awkward now, undressing
in front of her. She sees this, toughs it out, watching him
anyway.

                       GERDA 
             Were you really corrupted by my ankles?

Einar wears just his shirt now, begins to unbutton.


             You were shameless.


             I still am.

Einar peels off his shirt. Underneath, he wears Gerda's lace-
edged slip. Gerda GASPS slightly... Einar has outdone her
with this imaginative twist. But she rises to the occasion.
Feels the fabric against his body.








             Beautiful shameless Gerda...

She traces her fingers across his chest, challenged, aroused.




Einar asleep, a SCRATCHING sound in the background. We see
quick charcoal strokes on paper, Gerda wrapped in Einar's
dressing gown, at the side of the bed. She's fascinated,
suddenly able to see the femininity of his features, plays
with it, creating a revised Einar... His eyes open...


             Did I wake you?

He raises his eyebrows, entertained.      What does she think?
She smiles, carries on working.

                       GERDA 
             Sorry... I couldn't sleep.


             Why?


             Wondering about things.


             What things?


             Wondering if we made a baby last night.

Einar smiles, surprised.


             What d'you think?

Gerda shrugs, keeps sketching.


             Wondering when you got so pretty.


             Oh, I was always pretty, you just never
             noticed.

Gerda LAUGHS, keeps working.




In the studio, Einar looks at the sketches Gerda has made of
him, darkly fascinated. He hears Gerda come in.








             Hello...?


             In here...

Gerda comes in, puts down her workbag, takes off her coat.
Einar's still looking at the sketches. Gerda's a little self-
conscious...

                       EINAR 
             These are good.


             Do you think?

He nods, absolutely serious. Gerda absorbs this, gratified.

                       GERDA 
             Well thank you. Thank you.

Gerda goes out to hang up her coat, calls -

                       GERDA 
             I had coffee with Ulla. She asked
             about the Artists' Ball.

Einar draws breath to protest, but:

                       GERDA 
             Don't worry - I told her no.


             You should go, you enjoy it.


             With you I enjoy it.

Einar feels guilty.


             Look - it's good to be seen at those
             things. I understand that.


             And that's why you hate them.

Gerda shrugs - she gets it.       He smiles.


             I feel as though I'm performing myself.


             Giving them your Einar Wegener.

Exactly.   Gerda looks at him a moment.







                       GERDA 
             Why not give them something different, go
             as someone else?

She tilts her head. A look between them... this is a
departure... Einar hesitates a moment...


             Did you have someone in particular in mind?

A mischievous smile spreads across Gerda's face... she starts
to laugh, Einar begins to understand... laughs along...

                       EINAR 
             No - that's outrageous!


             You'd be very convincing...    You might even
             enjoy it...

Einar marvels at her... she's only half-joking.




Gerda sweeps a layer of foundation over Einar's face.         When
she's done, he opens his eyes. Gerda's taken aback.


             You'll have to shave closer.

Einar takes in his blanked-out face in the shaving mirror.
Gerda goes to apply eyeliner...

                       GERDA 
             Close your eyes... This is hard on someone
             else...


             Here...

Einar takes the crayon, draws a couple of pretty good lines.

                       EINAR 
             How's that?

She marvels at his reflection.      It's bizarrely compelling.


             Better than I ever manage.

His reflection looks back. Gerda's energy is up...       She
drapes her scarf around his neck...

                         GERDA 
             Oh, Lili!    I want to sketch you...







She hurries him through to the studio... arranges cushions on
the chaise.

                       GERDA 
             Sit!

Einar sits - a distinctive pose.


             Come on, Hvap!

Hvappe jumps onto his lap. Gerda sketches quickly, absorbed,
excited. She rearranges him, `feminising' his poses.


             Knee over... head up.. Look at
             those hands... relax...

We see Einar at a series of angles... but his movements are
more and more parodically feminine for Gerda's entertainment.
The more he acts it, the more fun it is, until finally Gerda
scolds, still laughing:

                       GERDA 
             No, don't make her a slut!


             It's your fault, you excite her.

Gerda gets close to pin him still.      His face closes on hers.


             Why, Miss Lili, you are forward...


             You have no idea...

He falls on her, laughing, passionate... Gerda responds, but
grabs a cloth and wipes his made-up face as he kisses her.







We see Gerda's work around the room, now, depicting `Lili's'
progress. Einar, at the mirror, plucks his eyebrows to better
resemble the glamorous arch in Gerda's sketches.




Einar and Gerda walk, a little way apart. He feels his way
into her gait, she checks back on his progress.










     As Gerda buys fish, Einar is distracted, observing and
     copying the movements of the female customer beside him...




     Gerda and Einar arrive.   The stage doorman nods.


43             Morning, Thorbjorn...                                 43


               Good morning.




     Gerda and Einar try on wigs, surreptitious, excited, adjust
     one another's choices. Then, a long line of almost identical
     shoes, beginning in tiny sizes but gradually getting bigger.
     Einar grabs the last - biggest - pair. When he looks up,
     Gerda's showing him a dress...




     Einar and Gerda head out past the stage doorman, very pleased
     with themselves. Gerda is several sizes fatter and taller -
     she wears a wig with a hat on top. Hands stuffed into coat
     pockets hide bulky shoes. Thorbjorn looks up briefly from
     his newspaper. Then as the door closes behind Einar and
     Gerda, he looks up again - ?






     The Lili sketches depict a gamut of moods, face and posture
     already becoming iconic. Einar in the slip and the new
     shoes, practising his walk to settle his nerves. Hears the
     front door open - quickly calls:


               I wondered where you were, it's getting
               late.

     Gerda comes in...


               We have plenty of time.     I bought these...

     Einar takes the stockings with interest. Gerda watches,
     entertained at his enthusiasm, but a little apprehensive..







                       GERDA 
             Einar, are you sure about tonight?

Einar looks up, surprised. Nods, without hesitation.
Gerda's a little taken aback at his enthusiasm.




Dancing light and sound - up ahead, we see a glamorous,
eclectic gathering: the fun-loving, the arrogant, the
eccentric, the bourgeois - all rubbing shoulders on their
way to the Royal Academy.

Two pairs of women's feet in step: Gerda and Einar, approach
the melee. Then Gerda realises Einar has slowed, dropped
back behind her. She turns to see him transformed in a
chiffon dress with a linen sailor's collar and cuffs...


             What is it...?

Einar's eyes shine animated. He cuts an ungainly figure, but
the impression is more confusing than jarring.


             Am I pretty enough?

Gerda's surprised by the sincerity of the question.


             Of course you are...

He takes Gerda's hand and she pulls closer.


             I'll never be as pretty as you.

Gerda studies the features, the fire behind the eyes. An
intensity she had not been expecting... something new... A
charged moment... Gerda's genuinely moved... but then
Einar/Lili laughs, breaks away... leaving Gerda with a beat
of emotion that doesn't belong anywhere.




Gerda and `Lili' mingle with the crowd.    A VOICE rings out:


             My darling!

A flicker of fear in Lili... until Gerda interposes herself:


             Ulla, let me introduce...







Ulla's eyes snag for a moment as they search the familiar
face and realisation dawns. Delight floods her face. Then:


             It's Lili...!


             That's right. Einar's cousin from
             Vejle...


             My dear, you're exquisite...

She LAUGHS, thrilled, exchanges a look with Gerda. Lili's
eyelashes flutter, a picture of shyness as Ulla summons the
rest of her party - revelling in their shared secret...

                       ULLA 
             In - let's go in...

Gerda and Lili - holding hands - join the crush:


             You won't leave me, will you...?

Gerda looks down at Einar/Lili's grip on her hand.


                 
             No. No, never.

She squeezes the hand and they press forward together.




A spectacular event. An orchestra plays and people dance.
Ulla's party drink and laugh. Gerda and Lili hang back a
little, observing. There's a circle of men in tuxedos nearby.
One glances across at Lili. Lili looks away, blushing.


             People are looking.


             Well you're a pretty girl, you'll
             have to get used to that.

But she sees Lili's really uncomfortable.

                       GERDA 
             It's fine. You're just feeling
             self-conscious.


             Gerda - !

They spot Elsa across the crowd... Lili shrinks.






             Go and talk to her...


             No, I'll stay with you...


             Go. I'll be fine. Go before she
             comes over here...

Gerda reluctantly crosses the room and greets Elsa warmly.
But by the time she glances back, Lili has gone.

Lili sits at the edge of the dancefloor on a bench carved
with mermaids, a nerve fluttering in her cheek. We see a
young man, HENRIK SANDAHL, study her closely - closely enough
to see she is not everything she appears, but this only seems
to intrigue him. He sits beside her. Lili self-consciously
takes a notebook from her bag, begins to jot things down.
Henrik leans in, his raven hair in Lili's peripheral vision,
leans forward until Lili's refusal to engage becomes comical.


             Are you a reporter?

Lili looks up.


                   
             No.


             A poetess...?

Lili packs up the notebook and hurries away... Finds a
corridor, leading off the hall - quieter, darker...

Lili feels her way along the wall, relieved to be in the
cooler air, away from the party. As her eyes adjust to the
darkness, she sees a couple kissing in an alcove. A flash of
the woman's white thigh, as the man pushes up her dress.
Lili turns away, discomfited, walks straight back into
Henrik.

                       HENRIK 
             Do you know the story of this oak
             tree?


             Mm...?

Henrik indicates a tree outside, behind Lili...


             They say if you eat its acorns you
             can make a wish and become anyone
             you want for a day.






Einar's reaction flashes through Lili's facade.


             Why would they say that...?

Henrik bows, entertained by the effect he's had...


             Henrik Sandahl. At your disposal.

A moment's hesitation, then:


             Lili...


             Are you here with someone, Lili?


             Yes - my cousin's wife.


             Who's your cousin?

Lili hesitates, turns back:


             Einar Wegener. He's a painter.


             Rather a good one.   Better than
             most people think.


             Is that right?


             Most people our age at any rate.


             Well....

She makes to leave again, but:


             Don't go back in. It's cooler
             here. Besides, I'm a romantic.


             Oh really...


             I prefer the shadows and...

Lili steals a look at him.     He lowers his voice... sincere...








                       HENRIK 
             I don't mean to presume, but I've
             been watching you.

A tremor of panic runs through Lili...

                       HENRIK 
             I think you might be the same.

Henrik holds out his hand. Lili looks at it, a sense of
connection she can't understand, previously unimaginable...
Then, trembling, Lili reaches out and rests her delicate,
manicured hand in Henrik's... and suddenly her nerves are
completely steady. Henrik leads Lili along the corridor,
away from the hall...




Noisier and smokier now, too much aquavit drunk, the guests a
little out of focus. Gerda scans the dishevelled crowds,
concerned - no sign of Lili. Suddenly, Ulla's at her side.


             Have you seen Einar? I can't find
             him.


             Of course you can't, he isn't here!

Ulla and Gerda laugh... Ulla raises her glass... more fun!
But Gerda excuses herself, and continues looking...




Lili and Henrik sit on a bench in the lee of a sculpted
classical nude. Lili's cheeks burn. Henrik is clearly
fascinated. The slight sense of playacting between them only
heightens their excitement.


             You're different from other girls.

Lili scoffs gently.


             That's not a very original line.


             It's true.     You're old fashioned.

Lili takes Henrik in, decides to continue...


             Provincial. I'm new to the city.








             No, it's more than that. I feel
             I'd need to ask permission before I
             kissed you.

A bolt of something goes through Lili. Her eyes sink, drawn
and repulsed, to Henrik's lips. She can hardly breathe...


             I probably ought to find Gerda.

She heads back toward the corridor... Henrik grabs her hand.


             Why don't you tell her I'll walk
             you home...?


             She wouldn't like that...

He advances, his body pressing against her, commanding,
holding her fixed in the doorway...


             Lili...

Lili pulls away, flustered, aroused...


             Einar might be waiting up... he
             wouldn't like this...


             Wouldn't he...?


             No...


             Lili...

He steadies her... repeating her name...

                       HENRIK 
             Lili... Lili.

Three times a charm... We see something shift in Lili...
Henrik senses it... He kisses her. When he releases her she
gasps, and he kisses her again, finds his passion returned
this time... When she finally catches her breath she can't
look at him...


             You didn't ask permission...


             I couldn't risk you saying no.






Standing in the corridor, by the oak, Gerda watches, stunned,
as Lili clutches Henrik's arm, looks suddenly faint, upset...
Lili looks down, confused and then panicked. Blood pours
from her nose, down the front of her dress... she's appalled.

                       HENRIK 
             What's happened..? Let me...

Henrik tries to find a handkerchief... Then sees Gerda
approaching... He pulls away from Lili...

                       HENRIK 
             I'm sorry I don't know what...

Lili holds out her arms to Gerda. Henrik steps back... Gerda
reaches Lili, quickly takes her weight... Gerda wraps her
scarf around `Lili', who now looks like Einar in grotesque
drag, smeared with make-up and blood.


             Quickly, lean on me...

Henrik watches, and onlookers stare as Gerda supports Einar
out of the ball... They stumble, clinging together, ashamed.




Einar paints.    In a smart male suit.   He is stiffly composed.

Gerda comes into the studio, in her nightclothes. Finds
Einar deeply immersed. No trace of the night's upset.


             How are you...?


             You were late home last night, I
             thought I'd let you sleep. How was
             it? Did Lili have fun?

Gerda's stunned.     Goes to the kitchen, upset.

In the kitchen, Lili's bloodied clothes are soaking in a
bucket. Gerda struggles with the sight. Begins to make
coffee, then...

Gerda returns to the studio, watches Einar, anger building.
He allows it a while, then turns, braced to face her:


             I think it would be better if Lili
             didn't come here again.


             Fine.   I understand.








             You know what I would like to
             understand?

Einar takes Gerda in... how furious, how shaken she looks.

                       GERDA 
             Exactly what happened between you
             and Sandahl last night?


                 
             Nothing.

Gerda HUFFS, disbelieving.        Einar repeats himself, angrily:

                       EINAR 
             It was nothing.


             Did he know it was you?

Einar blushes, shies away.


             It wasn't as simple as that.     It's
             hard to explain...

Gerda loses control, shouts at him:


             I watched him kiss you, Einar, so
             could you please make an effort?!

Einar's shocked, ashamed.        He takes stock, then quietly:


             He may have known who I was. But I
             wasn't always... me. There was a
             moment when I was... just Lili.
             And I think he could see that. Do
             you see?

Gerda struggles to comprehend this shift in the landscape.


             But Lili doesn't exist.     We made
             her up.


             I know...


             We were playing a game!


             I know we were... but then it
             changed...





Gerda's mind reels, panic rises...


             This is absurd. We need to stop.
             Make it stop Einar.

With genuine anxiety:


             I'm going to try...

She goes, still distressed, leaving Einar alone.




The Chinese Laundress RINGS her tiny BELLS along the street.




The Lili portraits are gone. Einar regards a canvas. Failing
to paint. In the kitchen, Gerda chops vegetables, throws
them in a pan. She hovers in the doorway to the studio.


             Another headache?


             It's nothing...

She goes back into the kitchen again...


             Can I get you something?


             I'm fine.

Gerda returns to chopping.


             Maybe you should see a doctor.

Einar grows agitated.


             Gerda... I'm fine.

Gerda looks round to see Einar now in his coat. He quickly
collects a small suitcase, goes out, leaving Gerda to fret.




No lights on, no signs of life.









Einar passes through, nods amiably to the familiar doorman.




Einar turns on the lights, quickly pulls off his coat.    He
leans forward, bracing against the bench, looks in the
mirror. There's a desperation about him. But now he sees:
the front of his shirt gapes - reveals a cleavage, formed by
his rounded shoulders. Einar is compelled... nervously
unbuttons his shirt to the waist and leans forward again.
The effect is startling. He traces the shape of his
`breasts' with trembling hands.

With a new urgency, he quickly strips off shirt, trousers,
terrified that someone might catch him, yet driven to press
on. He pulls off his underwear, returns to the mirror, pushes
his cock back between his legs, squeezing his thighs tight
until he has an approximation of a vagina. He rounds his
shoulders, takes in the arresting transformation, breathless
with excitement, terror. A sense of impending inevitable
transgression.

He opens his case. A carefully folded silk package unfurls
into a dress, brushes against his skin.




Gerda sits in the chair looking out of the window, face set
against terror, her sketchbook closed in her lap, brooding,
pressure building. She opens the sketchbook: Lili...




Einar/Lili arrives inside a cafe, pushes back a headscarf. We
see Henrik waiting at a table. He quickly stands when he
spots Lili - who is consumed with shyness, real fear.


          I didn't think you'd come.

Lili settles in her seat.


          No.   Nor did I.




Gerda begins to sketch, almost afraid to begin. But her
energy gathers and there is soon anger and desire in the work
as she conjures a Lili with dark erotic potential, a frenzied
relationship with the subject developing...








Gerda lies on the chaise, exhausted. Hears the door, doesn't
move. Einar appears, in his overcoat. After a moment:


          I thought you might not come back.


          That's absurd...


          Is it?

Einar can hardly bear the question... feels terrible, wraps
his arms around her. Then sees, at an angle, in the half-
light, the new Lili picture. A nude with female hips and
breasts. A slash of red mouth. A cigarette.




A door opens and Gerda sits up - a THIN YOUNG MAN appears.


          He won't be much longer.

Gerda sits back, too pessimistic to feel nervous.




Rasmussen studies a series of Gerda's portraits, his mouth
puckered with poorly disguised distaste. Gerda steels
herself to withstand the humiliation.


          I just... I don't know...

And then he sees the Lili nude. He's suddenly intrigued...

                    RASMUSSEN 
          The model...?


          Einar's cousin.


          Yes, the resemblance is...

Rasmussen's mind races.

                    RASMUSSEN 
          Are there others...?


          A series back at the studio.






Rasmussen licks his lips, excited but uncertain...


             These are different... For these, I don't
             know... there may be a market.

Gerda has to confirm what she's heard:


             You're taking them.


             Well, yes...

He's surprised as she is.




Lili hurries past the endless orange facades of a long row of
terraced houses, Gerda's embroidered wrap flying in the wind
behind her. Knocks at a door, breathless...




Henrik welcomes Lili at the open door...


             Come in...

He closes the door against the world. Lili takes in the
space. She's delighted by it -


             I don't have long... Gerda's seeing
             Rasmussen.

Henrik gestures for Lili to sit.      She settles on the couch.


             I don't like all these lies.


             She's very protective.


             Why don't you just tell her about
             us?


             I couldn't do that...

Lili seems a little panicked...


             Sorry - I don't want to upset you.






He sits beside her, settles her...

                       HENRIK 
             Come here...

Lili lets herself be drawn closer to him... He strokes her
face. Lili smiles, adoring. Henrik kisses her and she
responds eagerly. His hand works its way down her body,
between her legs. Lili squirms, uncomfortable. He
persists... Lili bears it as long as she can, then gently:


             No... Henrik...


             Yes...


             No...

Still in the moment of passion...


             Einar...

Lili recoils, stunned... astonished...


             What...?


                 
             Come on... it's alright...

But Lili pushes him away, upset, bewildered...


             I'm sorry, I don't understand...

Henrik's frustrated.


             Einar... please...

Lili panics, grabs her things to leave, horribly exposed...


             I don't know what you mean... I don't know
             what you want...


             I want you!


             No...









             Yes... wait... Wait!      Lili... Lili, come
             back...

But Lili bolts, away and out through the front door, leaving
Henrik powerless, bereft.




Lili rushes away, disorientated, along the row of garish
facades, their orange now seeming grotesque...




Gerda struggles in with her portfolio. Heads for the kitchen,
preoccupied by her experience with Rasmussen, is taken aback
to see Lili at the table, Gerda's embroidered wrap pulled
tight about her. Then Lili looks round - her face swollen and
streaked with tears.


                 
             Are you alright...?

Lili reaches out her hand and Gerda takes it...


             No...

She holds Gerda at arms length.       Takes a deep breath.

                       EINAR/LILI 
             I've been seeing Henrik Sandahl.

Gerda reels, speechless as Lili clatters out, stumbling to
the bedroom. Closes the bedroom door.




Gerda sits - waiting. Finally, Einar comes back, in male
clothing. Looks devastated.


             I thought perhaps you knew.


                   
             No.


             You always seemed to know everything.


             Not this.






He nods.   Gerda's desperate confusion surfaces:

                       GERDA 
             So... are you in love with Sandahl?

Einar's appalled:


             No - I love you, Gerda, only you. But
             Lili...

Angry tears well in Gerda's eyes.


             Why can't you just be honest about this!

But Einar's angry too...


             I'm trying! Gerda... please... I
             need you to believe me. You of all
             people to understand.

Gerda shakes her head, unable to take this in...      He looks at
her, desperate imploring... Gerda struggles:


             Okay, I need you to tell me... when Henrik
             and `Lili' are together, they what...? They
             kiss - we know that...

Einar nods, awkward.    Gerda steels herself:

                       GERDA 
             Has it gone beyond that?


             No... No, Lili's never gone further than
             that with a man. She... she wouldn't...

Gerda hears the implication... a bodyblow for her:


             There have been other men?

Einar sits on the bed, bites down on something difficult:


             There was another, but it was a long time
             ago.

A chill runs through Gerda...    Einar gathers his courage.

                       EINAR 
             That boy Hans... back in Vejle.

Gerda rubs her brow... everything's happening too fast...






                       EINAR 
             Lili fell for him. And he kissed her. Just
             once.

Einar darkens at the memory:

                       EINAR 
             But my father came in and he caught them...
             He knocked Hans down - he was so angry...

Einar shakes his head... Gerda absorbs this. She looks up -
Einar looks pale, dark circles under his eyes.


             I don't know what to say.

He breathes suddenly, against pain...

                        GERDA 
             What...?

His eyes close, sweat forming on his brow.


             I'm so sorry...

He doubles over, clutching his stomach... moans horribly...

                       EINAR 
             I'm so sorry... I'm not feeling
             well.

He tries to get up from the table, struggles...


             Einar... what is this?   What's happening...

She rushes to catch him as his legs give out under him...

                       GERDA 
             Einar... Einar...?




DR HEXLER closes the door firmly on Gerda, leaving her to
fret in the waiting room. She settles for a long wait.




Hexler sits behind a desk.     He's brisk but kind.


             So, you saw Dr Andersen after a
             bout of severe nosebleeds, which
             you have come to believe coincide





                       HEXLER 
             with your stomach cramps, and on a
             monthly basis.

Einar nods as he undresses.

                       HEXLER 
             How long have you been married?


             Six years.

Hexler takes notes as Einar continues stripping.


             Children?


             No.


             Is there regular copulation?


             Yes.   Perhaps less now than...


             Than before you started to dress as a
             woman?

Einar's shocked to hear this out loud.

                       HEXLER 
             Mr Wegener I'm a specialist. You
             may be embarrassed - I am not.

                       HEXLER 
             So. Tell me about Lili. Where
             does she come from?

Einar considers...


             Inside me.

Hexler seeks to inject a rational note...


             You know the most likely
             explanation for all this is a
             chemical imbalance?


             Really...?


             Onto the bed.

Einar climbs onto a raised doctor's couch.





                       HEXLER 
             That would explain the pain, the
             confused state of masculinity and
             the infertility. Let's hope it is
             that, because that we can cure.

He switches on the bright examination lamp, places his palm
against Einar's lower abdomen.




Einar is strapped to a hospital trolley by a couple of
nurses. Hexler watches through a window onto the room.
Einar grasps Gerda's hand, anxious, bewildered:


             I don't need to do this...   There's
             nothing wrong with me..


             Einar, that's not true.

The nurses nod to Gerda to leave.


             This can't be right...

The nurses wait...


                 
             Radiation is a miracle, Mr Wegener:
             it destroys the bad and saves the
             good.


             He says it will be over very
             quickly...

The nurses lead Gerda out... Einar takes in the alien
machinery of the room. She watches helplessly through a
tinted window as the X-ray machine begins to WHIRR. Hexler
speaks into a funnel:


             Lie still, Mr Wegener...

The JUDDERING of the machine fills Einar's head... an
overwhelming assault on the senses... He closes his eyes,
vanishes into himself.




Einar drowses.








             Mr Wegener...?

Einar's eyes    blink open.    They are dark, unreadable.

                       HEXLER 
             How are you feeling this morning?

Einar considers the question for a moment, then -


             You've hurt Lili...

Hexler reads the distress in Einar's features.      Einar closes
his eyes again against the thought.




Hexler speaks to Gerda with new gravity.


             I'm afraid your husband's aberrant thinking
             persists. Do you keep a lock on your
             wardrobe?


             Of course not.

Hexler is nervous, but his tone is threatening.


             Mrs Wegener, you haven't been encouraging
             this delusion? You do understand that your
             husband's insane?


             No, that's not true...

Hexler turns, walks away.      Gerda's furious...

                       GERDA 
             We trusted you, we came to you for help...

But Hexler keeps walking without a backward glance.




The early sun glances off the windows of the Widow House.




The dog looks up from the bed. Runs over to greet Gerda who
has just come in from the studio. We see now the dog is
keeping Einar company. Gerda speaks in a hushed voice.







             I won't be long.


             Don't worry about me, I'm fine.

Einar is ashen, eyes glazed, surrounded by two dark circles.




Gerda hurries past the window.      Inside we can make out a blur
of Lili portraits on show.




Gerda in Rasmussen's office.      He's unusually excited.


             Gerda!    Where have you been?


             Away.    Why, what's wrong?


             I sold the Lili portraits!

Gerda is astonished...

                       RASMUSSEN 
             I have enough interest to mount a full
             show.

Gerda's amazed.


             Well that's wonderful...


             And there's more - I had a call from the
             Etienne Dufour Gallery - they would like to
             represent you in Paris.


             In Paris...?


             You should go and see them.

Gerda's mind races...


             Oh - I can't travel just now...


                 
             Gerda, this is your moment.      You've waited





                       RASMUSSEN 
             long enough... And these dealers can be
             fickle.

Rasmussen tuts, disapproving.




Gerda, in a hurry, stops to collect the mail from the foot of
the stairs. There's an art magazine, a personal letter,
then, underneath an envelope from The Radium Institute...
Hexler's name on the back. Gerda freezes, then quickly opens
it, reads: "no choice... treated for perversion...". She
struggles for a moment, panic rising, then folds the letter,
stuffs it in her jacket. A dark decision resolves itself in
Gerda's face...




Einar's asleep.    Gerda packs, driven - sees Einar sit up.


             What are you doing?

Gerda gathers her courage.


             I've been asked to exhibit in Paris...


             That's wonderful...


             Yes. We have to go. Rasmussen said it
             would make all the difference...

Einar's incredulous...


             I'm not sure I can do that...


             You can.   I'll take care of you...


             But surely there's no rush...


                 
             Can't you just do this one thing for me?

But by the time her outburst is over, she's shaking...


             Gerda, what's happening?

Gerda looks at him.     He's waiting for the truth.






             I had a letter from Hexler...


             He wants to lock me up.

Gerda holds his hands, utterly determined:


             But he won't. Everything will work out for
             us. Really - I know it. You just have to
             trust me...


             I do...

Gerda steels herself:


             So. Is there anything to take care of
             before we go? Anyone you need to tell?

Einar considers a moment, then:


             No.

Gerda nods, relieved. She kisses his cheek, resumes packing.
Einar concentrates on keeping breathing.




A dazzling archetypal view of the Seine and its light-studded
bridges, the Cathedral of Notre Dame a bold silhouette in the
background. VOICES come up, an EXCITED SOCIAL SOUND.




An emphatically chic Parisian crowd admires a triumphant
series of Lili portraits - a couple that we saw at
Rasmussen's, and then several nudes, Lili imagined as an
anatomically correct woman. A small group gathers round
Gerda, their new star, and a still pale Einar.


             Einar's a painter too...


             Oh?   Do you exhibit in Paris?


             I think my work is a little...
             introspective for French taste.

An ENTHUSIASTIC AMERICAN WOMAN interrupts...







             Excuse me - is the model here?

Einar rides it out.    Gerda doesn't miss a beat.


             No, she stayed behind in Denmark.


             Oh, I was so hoping to meet her.

Einar looks down, away, affected... Gerda's swept off by the
gallery owner, leaving Einar in the company of the paintings
of his own banished self.




Gerda and Einar in bed, close, tenderness on both sides.
Gerda gently kisses Einar, then begins to work her way down
his torso. He closes his eyes, wills himself to let this
happen... Gerda begins to fellate him... He struggles with
his breathing, intensely challenged


             Gerda... please... I can't.

She continues... He's overwhelmed with panic, pushes her off.

                       EINAR 
             No...

The attempt at intimacy is over, failed. Einar's full of
guilt, distress. Gerda's hurt, lost. Neither moves -
emotional paralysis.




Gerda works on a self-portrait. Einar appears. Gerda
hurries, to greet him, summons a playful mood, born of
desperation.


             Will you sit for me? Just as you
             are. We haven't done that since
             art school. You enjoyed it then...

He smiles.    She strokes his face, encouraged.

                       GERDA 
             The teacher suddenly at the mercy of the
             student. You found it exciting.

Gerda curls in to him.    He gently extricates himself.


             I... I can't just now.   I'm sorry.





Gerda feels ashamed, can't help herself:


             I miss you. I miss you working beside me.

Einar hesitates, then admits:


             I can't remember the landscape any more.      I
             can't remember Vejle.

Gerda struggles to adjust to this, then:


             Well you could help me with this
             background. What does it need...?

Einar looks at the painting, can hardly pull it into focus...

                       GERDA 
             An kettlehole lake? A farmhouse, far off?                  *

He gently stops her -


             Gerda...

He's not going to do it.        Turns away, goes out.




Gerda watches from the window: Einar in the street below, on
through the crowds until he's out of sight.




Different part of town, different atmosphere. Prostitutes on
the corner CLUCK indulgent as Einar passes. He looks self-
consciously about, enters a dingy house as another man comes
out. They barely acknowledge one another.




A hatch in a door slides open, and MADAME CARTON's eyes flash
greedily from behind an iron grille.




The tiny room contains a chair and a bin. We hear GROANS from
an adjoining room. There are two small windows with black
shades drawn. Einar settles, slowly lifts one of the shades.
Behind smudged glass, a worn-out girl in a corset and
stockings grinds against a chair, sullen. Beyond her, we see






another dark window, another man with his nose pressed
against it.

Einar studies the girl and gradually his body begins to
mirror hers, a parody of female abandon. We see his
reflection in the glass now, gradually eclipsing her... He
breathes, an almost orgasmic GASPING breath of relief.




HANS AXGIL on the telephone. An impressively upholstered man,
quixotic, appealing. The emphatically masculine room - dark
wood infused with Hans' cigar smoke - overlooks a
breathtaking view of the Seine. A sense of space, freedom.


             Hey, he's playing with us!   He knows the
             price...

Hans laughs, shakes his head. A quiet KNOCK and a secretary
pulls a face around the door. Hans waves her away, impatient.

                       HANS 
             Look, I have to go. I have some Danish girl
             waiting to see me. But tell him we'll find
             another buyer, no problem. He's always the
             same!




Gerda's immediately on her feet, her strong right hand
stretched towards Hans, unavoidable. She's no girl.


             Hans Axgil..

He shakes her hand, intrigued.    Gerda's a little over-eager.


             Thank you so much for...


             Don't thank me yet - I can't represent you.
             I don't handle any contemp...


             Of course, no, I know that...


             The reviews for your show were terrific,
             but your work is way out of my...


             Perhaps if you let me speak, things would
             be clearer...?






Hans stops, surprised.      His secretary suppresses a smile.


             Let you speak?

Hans takes her in, the tough fragility of her.     Smiles.

                       HANS 
             I'm a much better listener when I'm eating.

He nods goodbye to his secretary, shows Gerda the door.




They hurry along the street, approach the restaurant...


             Well, I don't know why Rasmussen
             gave you my number, but I'm happy
             he did...


             I asked him, I wanted to meet you,
             put a face to a name...

Hans smiles, encouraged. He holds open the door to a smart
brasserie. Gerda goes through ahead of him. As she does:

                       GERDA 
             I believe you were a childhood
             friend of my husband.

Hans is left holding the door, alone.


                 
             You have a husband?




Gerda and Hans settle at a table.     He nods to the sommelier.


             A bottle of the Mersault...

The sommelier hurries away.     Hans studies Gerda.    Who is she?


             I'm married to Einar Wegener.

Hans is amazed.


             To Einar?








             You remember him?


             Of course I remember him. My God - we were
             such friends. How is he?

Hans is excited, a boy again. Gerda can't help it, blurts:


             He told me that you kissed him once.

Hans is taken aback...


             I what...??

But his amazement shifts as it comes back to him...

                       HANS 
             Oh no! You're right... We were fooling
             in the kitchen. Einar was wearing his
             grandmother's apron...

Hans laughs, amazed at his younger self:

                       HANS 
             We were just little boys, you know,
             playing around? Anyway, Einar just
             looked so pretty in that apron - I
             kissed him! Next thing I know, his
             father's chasing me out.

Hans shakes his head...

                       HANS 
             God - Einar. Hey - why didn't he come
             today?


             He doesn't know I'm here. I don't think
             he'd like me asking for help.

Hans' eyes flash, focused. This is what she's come for, then:

                       GERDA 
             We don't really know people here. And
             Einar's... he's lost his way. He's not
             working. He needs someone to represent
             him - someone who knows, him. He needs a
             friend.

Hans scrutinises Gerda, her pride at odds with her need. And
for the first time in her life, Gerda looks away, unable to
hold someone's gaze.










Gerda on her way out, a little anxious.    Hears the racket of
Einar hammering at a frame.


          Einar...?

She finds him stretching a fresh canvas.   He scarcely pauses.

                    GERDA 
          I've a new dealer coming over later.    I'd
          like you to meet him.


          I don't want a new dealer. It doesn't make
          sense for me. I'm hardly working anyway.


          That might change.


          I don't think so.    I'm happy helping you.

She goes to contradict, but he cuts her off:

                       EINAR 
          No dealer.     Thank you.


          It's Hans Axgil.

Einar stops, astonished.

                    GERDA 
          Dinner at La Dauphine at eight, then back
          here to see the paintings.

Gerda's out of the door, leaving Einar alone with the news.




An intimate place by the Pont Neuf. An empty chair at the
table. Gerda and Hans wait. Hans smokes.


          You know, Einar's still stricken
          with guilt about crashing your
          kite.


          It was handmade, and I've had it
          since I was four! I'm glad you
          reminded me. I'll tease him about
          that.








             No - it's too cruel.


             If he ever gets here. Perhaps he
             doesn't want to see me?


             No - no, it's not that.   We should order
             without him.


             Does he abandon you often?


             Of course not!

Hans is surprised at her strength of reaction.


             I was joking.

A waiter stands over them, amplifying the moment.




Hans' car rolls down the street.




Gerda takes out keys to open the apartment door...


             I can come back another time, if you think
             Einar would prefer it...


             Really. He's expecting you... and it will
             do him good...

But they're both a little apprehensive as they enter.

                         GERDA 
             Einar...?

Gerda noses into the living room, Hans following. He spots a
painting - his face brightens -


             I know this... the fjord at
             Vejle... not far from our houses!


             Yes, Einar painted it just before we
             left...






She goes ahead of Hans, sees: Lili on the chaise, in
imitation of a pose in a painting on the wall behind her...
dangerously charged, her cheek flushed, eyes shining. A tray
with crystal glasses.

                          GERDA 
             Lili...

Gerda reorientates herself in the proceedings, turns to Hans
who stands struggling to make sense of the scene before him:

                       GERDA 
             Hans, may I introduce Lili Wegener -
             Einar's cousin from home.

Now Lili's up, her hand held out.          Hans takes it...


             You can't imagine how happy I am.

He holds on to her hand, instinctively kind...

                       LILI 
             We met before in Vejle, but you probably
             don't remember...

Hans is utterly wrongfooted...


             Can I take your coat Hans?


             Of course...

He comes to, allows Gerda to relieve him of it. She takes it
away. Lili continues, frighteningly animated...


             A digestif, Hans? It's so chilly all of a
             sudden. I feel the cold these days. I
             don't know why...


             Thank you.

Hans sits, but his eyes wander to the portraits that are now
ranged around the room. A kaleidoscope of Lili.


             I'm so sorry Einar couldn't be here. He
             told me: in Vejle you were his great
             friend. Both always plotting to getting
             away!


             That's true...








             Such a tedious place! He said you'd sit
             and look out together, beyond the fjord..
             to the sea... to the future.


             Oh, we had big dreams...


             And you were the only one who let him paint
             in peace, who told him it was alright to be
             a painter.

Gerda returns to the room. Hans searches Lili's face for the
remains of his old friend Einar.


             He... used to sketch my portrait. Take a
             stone and draw me on the rocks at the side
             of the road.


             I didn't know that.


             Oh yes.

Gerda turns to Hans:


             Would you like to see more of Einar's
             work...?


             Do we have any?

Gerda's surprised, unsettled by the question.


             Yes, of course, Lili...


             Oh, but couldn't we see it another time?    I
             so want to hear more from Hans... Hans,
             are you married?


             No...


             Why not?

Gerda flinches, but:

                       LILI 
             He doesn't mind, do you...?

Gerda looks helpless.     Hans takes over:






             I've... been on my own a long time now.
             I'm too set in my ways.


             I think marriage is the single thing we
             should all hope for in life.


             Really?

Lili looks utterly buoyant...


             It creates someone else, more than just the
             two of you. It would be terrible never to
             know that...

Her expression crumbles... Hans looks to Gerda...


             Lili...

Lili's dissolving...


             Excuse me.

She hurries out towards the bedroom, clearly in distress.
Hans struggles to comprehend the situation...


             You... you ought to go...


             No - let me help...

She turns, holds Hans' hands... the intimacy, intensity of
connection surprises him:


             Please - please - I'm sorry...

He resigns himself to leaving... as he reaches the door:


             Goodnight Lili...


             Goodnight...

Hans lets himself out.

In the bedroom, Gerda, still shocked, looks at Lili -
bewildered, afraid, head hanging.

                       LILI 
             I don't think he noticed anything, do you?






             I don't know...


             No, I think I got out just in time.


             Sleep now.     We'll talk more tomorrow.


             Can I borrow a nightdress?

Gerda's shocked.


             No... we've never done that.     Lili's never
             spent the night...

Einar confesses:


             It doesn't matter what I wear. When I
             dream, they're Lili's dreams...

Gerda struggles to accommodate this, very reluctant... but
she gives in, nods. What else can she do?




Gerda in bed. Lili's sleeping head on the pillow next to
her, where Einar's once was. Gerda turns out the light.




Gerda arrives to find Lili in a bright dress with matching
scarf. Shopping bags everywhere. Slight tension in the air.


             A new dress...


             And this.     Do you like it?

She hands Gerda a bright scarf...


             Yes.   It's perfect for you...

Gerda hands it back.

                       GERDA 
             We're actually a little short of money at
             the moment.

Lili hangs the scark back round Gerda's neck, hardly misses a
beat:






             I know, but now I'm back, I can sit
             for you again, can't I...?   That
             worked well before, Gerda, didn't
             it...?

Lili and Gerda take each other in, on a new footing...




Gerda paints Lili who has found a new stillness. A more
serious spirit beneath the translucent skin. A sense of her
growing into herself.

We see on the wall now a number of double portraits, telling
the story of a developing negotiation - Gerda and Lili
depicted together, with a sense of close friendship or a
wistful attempt at coupledom.

Now Gerda paints with Lili advising... The two
collaborating, a sense of shared vision.

And throughout, we see Lili fully imagined as a woman, and an
increasingly idealised one - unrealistically lovely...




Another show of `Lili' paintings. A lot of the paintings of
the two as a couple, but Gerda is here alone. She feels it.
She works the room, determined, then sees Hans, across the
crowd. Misses a beat. They make their way toward one
another. An awkward social kiss. Gerda's unusually brittle.


             It's a good crowd.


             She's a popular girl.   Thank you for
             coming.


             Thank you for asking me.   I thought you'd
             forgotten all about me.


             We've been busy.


             Is Einar here?


             Einar hates this kind of thing.


             That's a shame.    For you, I mean.







             I don't mind.

Hans wonders about this... lets it go.


             Is he well...?


             He's excited. We have an old friend coming
             to town: Ulla Fonsmarck, the dancer. Do
             you know her?


             I don't think so. Could I take you to
             dinner? To celebrate? Someone ought to.


             No.   Thank you.

Hans absorbs this, regroups.


             Gerda, have I offended you?


             No.


             Gerda...

He rests his hand on her arm, pressing for some honesty...
Gerda's cornered, the heat of the room, the nearness of Hans.


             I am still Einar's wife.

She brushes past him, into the crowd.       A MAN'S VOICE calls:


             Hans!

Hans' social mask slips quickly back into place.

Later: CLOSE ANGLE on Gerda, watching as a flirtatious woman
WHISPERS something in Hans' ear. His eyes widen, he LAUGHS.
Gerda looks away. Quickly sets down her drink and moves
through the crowd toward the door...

A GALLERY EMPLOYEE frets as Gerda pulls on her coat.


             At least take an umbrella...


             I'm fine, honestly...








             If you just wait a minute someone will
             drive you...

But Gerda's out in the rain, the party still in full swing.




Gerda lets herself in, breathless. Lili's just arranging a
supper table, is surprised to see Gerda home so early...


             Gerda...? Oh - you're wet through.

Gerda seems angry.    Lili tries to stay buoyant...

                       LILI 
             Did it go well...? Tell me - how
             was it?


             You'd know if you'd been there.

Lili falters, then points to the table... set with flowers...


             I've made us a supper...


             You should have come.


             A little sort of celebration...


             This is not how it goes!   We do
             these things together!


             That's you and Einar.

Gerda's pent-up frustration begins to boil over...


             Stop playing that stupid, stupid
             game!


             Don't you say this is a game!


             You should have been there!


             How could I be?   Look at me!

This further enrages Gerda -






             Not everything's about you!

Gerda is suddenly overwhelmed with emotion -

                       GERDA 
             I need to see Einar.

Lili flinches, shakes her head, touches Gerda, tender.


             Let me help...

Gerda cuts her off sharply, desperation building:


             I need my husband.   Just get him!


             I can't...

Lili's eyes cloud.    Gerda moderates, already losing hope...


             I want to talk to my husband.   I want to
             hold my husband. I need him.    Can you get
             him? Can you at least try?

Lili's pained by the request. Her eyes     plead, but Gerda's
desperate, won't give up. Finally Lili     shakes her head,
desperately sorry. Gerda turns on her      heel. The front door
BANGS as she heads off into the night,     leaving Lili alone and
deeply sad.




Gerda sits in the dark, watching the rain on the pond.




Hans heads for his building, is amazed to see Gerda on the
front step...


             Gerda... what is it?

She gets to her feet...

                       HANS 
             You're soaked...

He goes to comfort her, and she embraces him... initiates a
desperate snatched kiss before breaking away, upset. Hans
pursues her...







                       HANS 
             Gerda... wait...


             I can't...


             Wait...

He hurries to catch up.




Lili transitioning to Einar. It happens awkwardly, and when
Einar looks in the mirror, he's baffled by his reflection.




Hans drives an exhausted Gerda, pulls up outside their
building.


             Will you be alright?


             I'm always alright.

He reaches for her hand.          Gerda stiffens.


             For God's sake.       Take some kindness where
             you can.

He keeps hold of her hand. Gerda feels the warmth of him.
Her eyes fill.


             Einar always comes back in the end.      He
             always has...


             Maybe this time... he just can't.


             I'm sorry.

Gerda shakes her head, gently rejecting Hans.

                       GERDA 
             I've never not finished a painting, I don't
             know how to give up.

Hans smiles, rueful.       Finally lets Gerda take back her hand.










Gerda appears in the doorway. Sees Einar sitting in the
chair by the bed. She's struck by how vulnerable he looks.
He looks up, and with genuine regret:


          I don't think I can give you what you
          want...

He looks away, ashamed. It's unbearable. Gerda approaches
him. He looks like Lili dressed as Einar.

                    EINAR/LILI 
          I don't know how long we can go on like
          this.


          No.

She pushes in beside him. Einar/Lili lies in Gerda's lap.
They hold each other into the night.




Establishing shot.




Einar watches a group of dancers rehearse on stage. Sitting
in the stalls, Gerda and Ulla are talking, as Ulla unbinds
her feet. We see callouses over the knuckles of her toes,
toenails broken and sore. She's used to this.


          He needs to see someone.

Gerda checks Einar's well out of earshot.


          You know what happened with Hexler.


          But he's so thin, Gerda...?   There's
          something wrong with him.

Gerda looks across at Einar.


          Lili watches her figure...

Ulla lowers her voice -


          Look, there's a doctor - he runs the
          Women's Clinic in Dresden.





Gerda's face changes as she hears what Ulla's telling her.

                       ULLA 
             He's interested in men like Einar. Men who
             are... different. Who are... confused.

Gerda's surprised.

                       ULLA 
             He's often in Paris.

Before Gerda can reply, Ulla is writing a name on a card -

                       ULLA 
             Just talk to him? It couldn't hurt, could
             it?

- "Prof. Kurt Warnekros". She gives the card to Gerda. Gerda      *
looks up at Einar. Finds him looking back, plainly exhausted.




Gerda has made coffee.    Einar comes in, dressed and with some
energy.


             Oh good... you're awake... how do
             you feel?

Einar nods - pretty good.      She pours him coffee.

                       GERDA 
             Come.


             I can't - I have somewhere to go...

He pulls on a jacket.


             Where?

He recoils from the question.     Gerda gives up -

                       GERDA 
             I'm sorry - I don't know how to hold on to
             you any longer.


             I know. But I love you and I'm
             going to find an answer.










Einar at a desk piled high with books. He reads, driven,
fascinated. We see the books: The Normal and Abnormal Man, A
Scientific Study of Sexual Immorality...




Einar makes his way through the park. He looks bizarre in
daylight, like a woman dressed as a man. He passes a couple
of rough-looking younger men. One HISSES under his breath:


          Lesbian...

Einar looks round, amazed, almost amused at the mistake...
when the men recognise that Einar is - in fact - a man, they
LAUGH, shocked. Einar keeps walking, conscious of the men
shadowing him, making silly obscene noises and comments.

Einar presses on, anger and anxiety building as the men
pursue. Now the men pull level with him, jostle, one moving
ahead and rubbing his crotch.

                    YOUNGER MAN 
          You speak English? Are you a boy...


          Or a girl...?

The first Young Man leers and LAUGHS and then we suddenly see
his nose burst with blood as Einar's fist connects. The two
men are caught by surprise as he lashes out with terrific
energy, but they regroup and then Einar's down, fists and
feet flying, the men beating him furiously, until they
finally run away.




Animated discussion between Hans and another man.


          But I'm worried that will be too late.    I
          can't hold the buyers much longer...

Hans' secretary puts her head around the door. He glances
up, annoyed, but something in her face gives him pause.
Behind her, a man appears... A beat before Hans recognises
the badly swollen face.

                       HANS 
          Einar...










Hans tenderly cleans Einar's face with iodine.


          You're good at this.


          I boxed for a while.


          Shame you weren't with me earlier.

Einar smiles at his own humour, but it hurts too much.

                    EINAR 
          Sorry I've never been to see you before.


          That's alright.   You're here now.


          I couldn't let Gerda see me this way. She
          has enough to put up with.

Hans acknowledges the truth of this, carries on.


          Let me know if you feel light-headed.


          I'm permanently light-headed.


          God, Einar, what's happened to you?    I
          don't understand...


          Ha - nor do I. But I don't think it's
          anything new... Even in Vejle...


          What?


          Well I was different.


          It didn't take much to be different in
          Vejle! Surely, that's why we became
          friends?

Einar nods, accepts Hans' generosity. They take each other
in, the absurdity of their situation settling between them.


          I wanted to thank you for looking after
          Gerda.





      Hans is slightly uneasy.


                   It's no great hardship.


                   I've let her down.


                   She doesn't think that.

      Einar struggles a moment, then:


                   Every morning I promise myself I'll spend
                   the whole day as Einar. But there's so
                   little Einar left.


                   You need building up...


                   No. I think Lili's thoughts. All the time.
                   Even here, now, I'm having to work so hard
                   just to... to be me. To be this.

      He gestures, hopeless.    But Hans won't be defeated.


                   You think these things because you're
                   exhausted...

      Einar confesses.


                   I think sometimes about killing Einar.
                   It's only the thought that I'd be killing
                   Lili too that stops me.

      Hans is appalled, struggles for words.


                   You need to see someone.   A doctor.


                   No doctors.

      Hans lays his big hand heavily on his friend's shoulder.


130                Yes, Einar. You have to try.                       130




      Einar in a reclining chair, beside a pull-down chart of the
      human brain. He's focused, engaged. BUSON seems excited.







             A confused state of identity.

He snaps down a diagram of the frontal lobe.

                       BUSON 
             I drill small holes - here, here and
             here...

He touches Einar's forehead...    Einar blanches, surprised.




A CLOCK TICKS in the self-conscious reconstruction of Freud's
consulting room. MCBRIDE adjusts his pince-nez.


             I've listened carefully and I'm afraid it's
             not good news.

From the couch, Einar waits for the diagnosis.

                      MCBRIDE 
             You're a homosexual.

Einar fails to stifle a bitter laugh.




Dr Mai observes Einar, fascinated, over tented fingers.


             Well, I don't really know what kind of help
             I need, but I can't go on living without
             knowing who I am.


             Mm... very good...

Dr Mai nods vigorously, scribbles definitively onto a pad.


             Please excuse me a moment...

He nods politely goes out, leaving Einar alone. Curiosity
gets the better of Einar and he works his way to the desk,
looks at the pad. As the sun falls across it, he can clearly
see the imprint of a word: schizophrenic... Einar panics,
grabs his coat...




Dr Mai hurries down the corridor flanked by male nurses.









Dr Mai and the men look on, impotent, as the lace curtain
floats at the window onto the courtyard. Einar has gone.




Gerda comes home. The place is in darkness.      She startles.
Einar's been waiting for her. Gerda sits.


           Do you think I'm insane?


           Did a doctor say that?


           I'm sorry, I know we agreed no more... but
           look at me.

She does - carefully, seeing Lili, just below the surface.


           You're not insane.

Einar's grateful.     Gerda fights emotion...

                     GERDA 
           Did I do this to you?

Einar doesn't understand...


           What...?


           Sometimes I think if it hadn't been for the
           paintings...


           Oh no... no, no. You helped bring Lili to
           life, but she was always... she was
           waiting...


           But now she's making you ill.


           I don't know what to do.     The doctors can't
           help me.

Einar's at the end of the road.     Gerda broaches the subject
she most fears:


           Do you want to try one more...?






Einar is surprised.    What does Gerda have in mind?




Gerda and Einar sit, both nervous. Opposite, Warnekros
observes Einar closely. A nervous tension in the air.


             So what do you think would explain what
             you've been experiencing Mr Wegener?


             Professor Warnekros... the fact is... I                *
             believe I am a woman inside.


             And I believe it too.

Einar looks to Gerda, grateful to hear her say this out loud.


             You probably think I'm insane.   That we
             both are...

Warnekros smiles.    He lights a cigarette, taking his time.


             Well, there are people who think that I'm
             insane. But I think you're probably right.

Einar's amazed.    Warnekros breathes, begins:

                       WARNEKROS 
             I've met another man like you.

Einar grasps Gerda's hand, filled with hope...

                       WARNEKROS 
             I pursued his case - against the
             wishes of my colleagues, of course.

Warnekros considers a moment, then:

                       WARNEKROS 
             I told him I could operate. To make                    *
             him fully a woman.


             Is that really possible?

Einar and Gerda struggle to take in the idea.


             What happened to the man?   Was the
             operation successful?








             It never took place. On the morning of the
             first operation, he ran away. He was too
             frightened.


             I wouldn't do that.

Warnekros manages a grim laugh.      Sounds a warning -


             Perhaps he was the smart one. The surgery
             has never been attempted before.

Gerda tries to get a grip on things:


             Professor Warnekros, what is this                   *
             surgery...?                                         *


             Two operations... The first to                      *
             remove the male parts entirely.                     *
             The second - once you were strong                   *
             again - to construct a vagina.                      *

Gerda looks to Einar - Einar's rapt.                             *

                       WARNEKROS                         *
             An irreversible change, and a high                  *
             risk of failure, of infection,                      *
             complications.                                      *

Warnekros's hand waves through the air, suggesting the           *
worst...                                                         *


             It's too dangerous...                               *


             It's my only hope.                                  *

Gerda and Einar exchange a look.     Warnekros observes.


             I leave for Dresden at lunchtime tomorrow.

He warns them, an unmistakably serious tone:

                       WARNEKROS 
             Mrs Wegener, I do believe I can                     *
             help your husband. But he won't be
             your husband when I've finished.                    *










A NOISY bustling platform. People rushing in all directions.
Einar checks his ticket, about to board the train. Hans and
Gerda are with him, almost swept away by the tide of people.
Hans carries his case. They find a space in the crowd.
Einar strains at his starched collar - his suit is
emphatically masculine.


          I feel strange going dressed like this.


          It's important. Hans says the Germans will
          check your papers.


          Don't take any chances.       You're nearly
          there.

Hans and Einar embrace, then Hans holds him at arms length.


          I won't be seeing you again.


          You know, I've only really liked a handful
          of people in my life and you've been two of
          them.

Einar half-laughs.   Hans twinkles.

                       HANS 
          Take care.     Take care.                                     *

The men part. Hans withdraws. Einar turns to Gerda. What
can he say? They hold one another close, intensely private.


          I wish you'd let me come with you.


          I can't.   You love Einar. And I have to let
          him go.

They kiss, an emotional parting.       She removes her bright
scarf.


          Here, take this...

He takes it, smiles, and boards the train - just in time.
The air fills with steam and NOISE. Gerda raises her hand to
wave as the train pulls out, carrying Einar away. Einar
fights tears as he moves off... Gerda runs alongside a
little way, the gap that's opening between them suddenly
unbearable. And then... the train has gone. Gerda turns to
leave, finds Hans waiting. She walks past him, bereft.






                   Gerda...?     Let me give you a lift.

      She barely turns, hands stuffed firmly in her pockets.


                   I'm going to walk.

      She strides down the platform, trying to outpace the pain,
      face set, body strong. She could walk like this forever.




      Einar watches the scenery fly by outside.




      Gerda prepares a fresh canvas.




      Einar opens a document - his passport.       Takes a long look -


148                Next stop, Dresden. Dresden is the                 148
                   next stop...




      Gerda, charcoal in hand, the canvas before her, waits to
      begin. Then there's a swift line on the canvas - the curve
      of a flank - conjures a nude Einar or Lili... Whatever name
      is attached to it now. She sketches the form of a body she
      loves. Strong magic to keep it from harm.




      Lili walks into town, a high road that gives her a panoramic
      view of the river.





                   Hello...?


                   Yes, my name is Lili, I'm here to see
                   Professor Warnekros.                                     *


                   Lili what?






Lili wonders, surprised at the question...


             Oh... Lili Elbe. Yes.    Like the river.

The Receptionist nods.      Writes it down.


             Please take a seat...

Lili settles... looks around.      A sanctuary.   For women.




Lili sits with Professor Warnekros. Behind him, anatomical
models of women's reproductive parts, plastic foetuses.


             Must I really wait?


             It's only a week, We need you to rest and
             gain some weight. We can't risk an
             infection.

Professor Warnekros rises, rests his hands on Lili's
shoulders, paternal. Lili pats his hand, tender, submissive.

                       WARNEKROS 
             For what I'm attempting, you'll need to be                 *
             strong.


             This is not my body, Professor.                            *
             Please take it away.                                       *




Lili amidst other young women patients, many pregnant. She
concentrates on balancing a teacup on her knee. A VOICE:


             Do you think Spring will come early?

Lili looks round.       A delicate blonde, URSULA, sits nearby.

                       URSULA 
             I saw you looking at the crocuses.


             Oh - yes.    You're having a baby.

Ursula nods, cradles her round belly.


             And you?






             No - I'm ill inside. But Professor                        *
             Warnekros's going to make me better.      He's
             operating tomorrow.


             Will you be able to have children after?

The question catches Lili by surprise, sets her thinking...


             I don't know.


             I hope so.

Lili smiles, full of optimism.




A particularly solicitous NURSE gives Lili a white pill.


             To help you sleep tonight.

Later - Lili at the sink, wipes a washcloth over her face.
The water runs a peachy colour as powder and rouge rinse
away. Lili looks in the mirror at Einar for the last time.




Hans smokes his cigar.       Picks a speck of tobacco from his
tongue.


             Rasmussen called. The Dufour people want
             you in their group show. I like the idea.

Gerda looks across at him, hasn't heard anything.


             I'm sorry?


             The Dufour Gallery?

But Gerda shakes her head.         Hans SIGHS, considers, then:

                       HANS 
             Gerda, why don't you go...?


             He asked me not to.









             He wanted to protect you. You
             should be there. I'll go with you.

Gerda turns on him:


             No.   If I go, it'll be alone.


             Now you're sounding like Einar.


             I am like Einar.

Hans seethes, frustrated.


             What do you want me to do Gerda?


             I want you to go away.

Hans is surprised, hurt.


             Really?

Gerda looks down, fixes her eyes on a burn mark on the
tabletop. She senses movement as Hans chair is pushed aside.


             No, I'm sorry...

But it's too late.     Hans is gone.




Einar/Lili sleeps a deep sleep. We pull out to see the
operating theatre around her, Warnekros prepped to begin.





Warnekros escorts Gerda along the corridor.


             She only regained consciousness very                 *
             briefly. We're having to give her a great
             deal of morphine, of course, so that's to
             be expected.


As they reach Lili's room, a CRY fills Gerda with fear.           *







                       WARNEKROS                            *
             It's nothing, I assure you...                          *

Gerda is stunned to see Lili held down by ropes weighted with       *
sandbags. She looks terrible, grey-green, exhausted. A
nurse administers morphine, another soothes.


             You mustn't move Lili.   It only makes it
             worse...


                 
             My God...

The nurse pushes a paralysed Gerda gently aside -


             Excuse me...

The nurse slips a mask over Lili's face. She sucks
gratefully at the numbing gas. Gerda comes to, galvanises
herself, moves the nurse aside, takes hold of the mask.


             I'll do that. I'm here now. Don't worry,
             I'm here...

The nurse looks to Warnekros - he nods. She withdraws. Gerda        *
smooths Lili's brow, determined, devoted.




Lili dozes in her wheelchair. Gerda sketches. Lili smiles a
little but her eyes don't open. Gerda notices, stops.


             I can feel I'm getting better when I listen
             to your pencil.

She opens her eyes.

                       LILI 
             You've always sketched me better than I
             was.


             Have I...?


             What you draw, I become. You made me more
             beautiful, now you're making me strong.
             Such power in you.

Gerda smiles. Lili reaches out and touches her hands.
Lili's eyes shine, full of anticipation.






                             LILI 
                   Shall we go back to Denmark then, Gerda?
                   Shall we go home?




      Gerda CRACKS the lock on the shutters, pushes them open,
      flooding the long-dark room with light. Outside, the bustling
      harbour -


166                Lili!   Lili, you're late...                           166

      Lili appears. She's excited - dressed, made up...        Gerda
      holds out a little pill-box.

                             GERDA 
                   So, these...


                   Every two hours. And I have to eat
                   something first. I have a few
                   macaroons in my bag all ready.


                   And these,     only if you need them.

      Lili salutes like a girl guide.       Gerda marvels at her... so
      alive.

                                GERDA 
                   Good luck.

      Lili leaves.    Gerda breathes again.      A new beginning.




      Lili makes her way down the street, her confidence slowly
      building. A man lifts his hat as she passes and she looks
      away, surprised and pleased.




      Lili hangs on the glamourous Manageress's instructions. Fits
      perfectly with the other painted dolls behind the perfume
      counter.


                   And remember, making a purchase at
                   Fonnesbech's is not merely
                   shopping. It's an experience! You
                   lived in Paris, yes?


                   Oh yes...






             Let everyone know! The store is a
             stage - we are here to perform.

Lili looks out over the cut-glass bottles and endlessly
reflecting surfaces, thrilled ...




Lili at work.    She explains to an older female customer:


             And in Paris, a lady would never
             dream of spraying the scent
             directly onto herself.

The woman listens, entranced by Lili's animated lecture.

                       LILI 
             No, you spray the air, see, and
             walk into it...

Lili skips into the mist of scent.

                          LILI 
             Voila..!

Lili skips into the mist of scent.

                          LILI 
             You try...

The woman is shy, but Lili's enthusiasm is so infectious...

Later: Lili rearranges the perfume bottles on the counter
until they are perfectly aligned... a real satisfaction in
the aesthetic endeavour.




Lili and her colleagues pour out of the store, demob-happy.
Lili offers them sweets from her handbag.


             It's so unfair - you've got the
             sweetest tooth and the narrowest
             hips in the whole store...


             How do you manage it, eating so
             much sugar?


             Oh, the trick is to eat nothing
             else...






They all LAUGH.    Lili moves to go...


             See you tomorrow!

The Girl hurries into the arms of her waiting boyfriend.
Lili watches, intrigued. Until -


             Lili - are you coming...

And Lili rejoins the throng.




Lili walks along the canals, savouring the journey. The sun
sparkles on the water, and all around people are meeting and
talking, a world of life that she finally feels part of...




A quiet, dreamy atmosphere. Gerda lies awake, watches Lili's
lamplit silhouette on the other side of the dividing sheet.
Lili writes in her notebook. After a while:


             You know one night last week, I had
             the strangest dream.


             What...?


             I dreamed you were getting married.

Lili's silhouette sits up...


             Do you think I ever will...?


             Who knows? So many strange things
             have happened.                                         *

                       GERDA 
             It's not so long ago we were
             married... you and me.

Gerda waits in the silence for some response.


             You and Einar.


             I know it was Einar.   But really it
             was you and me.





They both absorb this idea...

Lili's silhouette waits a moment, then lies back down. Gerda
curls into herself.




Lili passes the cafe on the Harbour as usual, glances over...
Her footsteps slow... Sitting alone at a table is a familiar
face: Henrik looks up from his newspaper: Lili. He looks
shocked... then delighted...


             Is it really you...?                                    *

Lili smiles...                                                       *


             I believe so.                                           *

They begin to laugh, lit up with euphoria.       Henrik hurries to   *
pull out a chair for Lili to sit down...                             *



Lili and Henrik at a table together.      Henrik is stunned.         *


             So what you're suggesting is..                          *

Lili tilts her head, waiting, pleased with herself...                *

                       HENRIK                                *
             That a doctor...                                        *

Henrik glances around, lowers his voice...                           *

                       HENRIK                                *
             ...intervened...                                        *


             To correct a mistake in nature. I                       *
             have a passport to prove it.                            *


             He made you a woman...?                                 *

Lili bridles slightly, corrects him kindly -                         *


             God made me a woman. The doctor                         *
             cured the sickness that was my                          *
             disguise.                                               *

Henrik pushes, still struggling.       Lili's confidence ebbs...     *








             A real woman?                                           *

The question hangs between them.




Lili sits writing in her notebook, all seriousness. Gerda
looks up from reading. Lili takes a pill, resumes writing.


             You're going to need a new notebook
             if you carry on like this.


             When Professor Warnekros suggested                      *
             I keep a diary... well, I thought
             I'd never have anything to write.
             But it helps, to make sense of
             things.


             Perhaps I should try it.

Lili almost smiles.                                                  *

                       GERDA 
             Do you never think of painting?

Lili's surprised.

                       GERDA 
             You might be good at it.


             I want to be a woman, not a
             painter.


             Well, people have been known to do
             both. I'd be curious to see what
             you painted, that's all. Sometimes
             it's hard to know what's in your...

Lili takes a pill, testy.       Gerda's can't help herself:

                       GERDA 
             Didn't you just take one of those a
             minute ago?


             Gerda, I know what I'm doing.

Gerda backs off.

                       LILI 
             I'm going to get some fresh air.





Lili gets her coat and Gerda's wool wrap.      But as Lili heads
for the door -

                       LILI 
             You know sometimes I wonder why you
             let me go through all this if you
             thought everything would be the
             same afterwards.

Gerda's wrongfooted...


             I didn't. But I promised Einar I'd
             take care of you.


             For goodness' sake, Gerda - Einar
             is dead. We both have to accept
             that. You took care of me, now I
             have to take care of myself. I
             have to have a life of my own. And
             you need to do the same.

Lili calls the dog, heads for the door, and is gone.     Gerda
is left alone to process this exchange...




In the studio, Gerda reorganises, determined - paints,
brushes, solvents everywhere. She has already taken down
most of the sketches from her studio wall. It is blank - a
clean sheet.   She considers...




Gerda paces, exercised, all nervous indecision.     Resolves to
enter the booth... We hear a PHONE RINGING.




The Receptionist at her desk, on the phone:


             Yes, in London... Is it urgent?
             Should I could ask him to..?




Gerda, on the phone, disappointed, wrong-footed.


             Oh, no that's fine.   Just tell
             him... just say...






She struggles to compose a message.

                       GERDA 
             It's a beautiful day in Copenhagen.

She hangs up, discomposed. Feeling like a stupid teenager.




Gerda passes the fish stall, greets the female fishmongers -
then sees Lili, up ahead, on Henrik's arm. Henrik sees
Gerda... alerts Lili. Gerda nods politely and quickly heads
in the opposite direction.




Food cooking on the stove. Gerda drinks a glass of wine,
thoughtful. Lili arrives home, on eggshells...                      *


             It's not what you think. Henrik is                     *
             homosexual. There's nothing between
             us. But I should have told you I'd                     *
             seen him.


             No you shouldn't...                                    *


             He's just a friend, Gerda.   Someone
             to talk to.


                                                   *
             Because you can't talk to me.                          *

Gerda pours wine for Lili. She accepts the glass.                   *


             About some things, no.                                 *

Gerda lifts her glass, proposing a muted toast, but Lili has        *
something more on her mind...                                       *

                        LILI 
             I've made a decision. I'm going                        *
             back to Dresden. For the second
             operation.

Gerda's blood runs cold.


             It's too soon.









             No, it's time. I need to finish
             what I started.


             You're not strong enough...


             Professor Warnekros thinks I am...                    *


             Warnekros...? He hasn't seen you.


             I've made up my mind.

Gerda shakes her head, disbelief...


             It could kill you.


             I'm going on Friday. Will you come
             with me?

Gerda's mind races to absorb the announcement...


             I won't help you to hurt yourself.

Lili bites down on it:


             Gerda, will you come...?




Lili's sitting up in bed, Gerda's bright scarf around her          *
shoulders.    Warnekros holds Lili's wrist, checks the pulse.      *


             This will be harder than the last                     *
             operation? You understand that.                       *


             Yes I do.                                             *

A note of warning.                                                 *


             It's complex surgery.                                 *


             And I'll sleep all the way through                    *
             it!                                                   *








             Yes you will, but...                                  *


             You'll be there when I wake up.                       *

Lili half-jokes:                                                   *

                       LILI                                *
             I want a husband who looks just                       *
             like you!                                             *

Then, more thoughtful:                                             *

                       LILI                       *
             And maybe a child. Like a real                        *
             woman.                                                *

Warnekros nods, kindly, but...                                     *


             One step at a time.                                   *

He gets up.

                       WARNEKROS 
             Get some rest, now. Goodnight.

He smiles, goes to the door. Gerda's waiting outside.    They      *
cross in the doorway, polite but not warm.                         *

Lili smiles, seeing Gerda. Gerda sits on the bed.                  *


             You're still angry with me.


             I'm not angry with you, I'm worried
             about you.

Gerda lays her head in Lili's lap, tired with anxiety. Lili
strokes her hair. We feel the depth of love between them.


             You heard my wish Gerda. When no
             one else could hear me, you did.

Gerda's eyes begin to fill.    She collects herself.


             Come. We both need our rest. I
             can sleep in the chair, there...


             Off to your little hotel.


             I don't mind...





But Lili insists.


             Are there chocolates on the pillow?


             Cigarette burns.

Lili laughs, kisses Gerda's cheek.


             Take this... There's a chill in the
             air.

Lili goes to hand over Gerda's scarf, but:


             You keep it. For now.

Lili smiles, a little mischievous.       But then a look between
them. Gerda's afraid.


             I'm going to be fine.

Gerda nods, determined to believe it.


             Yes.


             Sleep well.


             Goodnight.

Lili is determinedly bright. Gerda takes her coat and bag.
The door closes behind her. A couple of moments pass and
then Lili begins to dissolve, releasing tears of overwhelming
fear and anticipation...




The CONCIERGE approaches, solicitous.


             Room 9.

The concierge turns to get Gerda's key. The sound of a
cocktail piano in an adjacent room serves to reinforce her
isolation. But then she sees reflected in the mirror - a
familiar face -

                          GERDA 
             Hans...?







Gerda turns, barely holding herself together... he catches
her in a heavy, passionate embrace. A huge sense of relief,
reunion, trust.


             It's alright.

Gerda nods, greatly comforted by his presence.


             Yes.


             Everything will be alright.

Gerda hangs on to Hans, desperately wanting it to be true.




A nurse helps a quietly determined Lili into a surgical gown.




Warnerkros, scrubbed in, serious, ready to begin.


             Good luck, everybody.

Lili anaesthetised. We stay on her face, hear voices, the
clank of instruments. Rain beginning... the sound of it
increasingly intense as the wind comes up too...




Morning light streams in, harsh, unforgiving. Hans holds the
door for Gerda. She's barely inside when the Receptionist
jumps urgently to her feet.


             Professor Warnekros would like a                      *
             word...

Gerda's faces register anxiety. Hans gestures - he's backing
off. He'll wait. Gerda hurries away.




Warnekros and Gerda walk purposefully along the corridor -         *


             She lost a lot of blood. Now we're
             struggling to keep the fever down.
             There's a chance it will burn
             itself out, but...





They arrive at the doorway to Lili's room. Warnekros shows           *
Gerda in. Lili sleeps fitfully, slick with sweat.                    *
Warnekros's clearly worried. Gerda's astonished at how ill
she looks.

                       WARNEKROS 
                 
             I'm sorry... I have to be honest.
             The prognosis is not...

He can't finish, but Gerda barely hears him anyway...


             Go away... thank you.   Leave us                        *
             alone.

Gerda hangs in the doorway, blocking it, until Warnekros is          *
obliged to turn away. We follow him, walking back down the           *
corridor, alone, excluded, burdened by failure.                      *




Heavy spots of rain begin to splash down. Most of the
hospital in darkness. A light glowing in one room.




Gerda in the chair at Lili's bedside, mopping her brow. The
rainstorm beating outside. A nurse enters with a jug of
water. Gerda nods, grateful.




A cleaner works her mop and bucket down the corridor.      Hans
sleeps in a chair up ahead.




Lili sleeping, calmer now. Her face translucent in the
morning light. Gerda sleeps in the chair beside her. Gerda
wakes, disoriented for a moment, then looks at Lili, sleeping
peacefully, clearly cooler now... Gerda feels her brow - no
heat there any more...   Gerda's relief is palpable. She
smooths Lili's fringe, then gets up, opens the curtains -
wide - the sun just starting to show in the rain-washed sky.
She turns back to see Lili's eyes open.


             Lili...?

Lili struggles to speak.








                        GERDA 
             I'm here... just lie still... It's
             alright...

Lili smiles through her medicated haze.       She sees Hans hurry
in... thrilled to see her awake...


             Oh, Lili.    How are you?

Her voice is faint, cracked.      She takes in Hans and Gerda:


             I am... entirely myself.

Hans laughs gently.


             I'll tell Warnekros she's awake.

Hans goes.    Gerda sits back beside Lili, fixes her hair.


             You know you had us worried...

Lili's frail, otherworldly, but her eyes burn bright.      She
looks to the window.


             Can I go outside, Gerda?    Into the
             garden?


             I think you should rest...

But Lili takes Gerda's hand, a great sense of calm in her.
She looks at Gerda. Gerda still there, always there.


             Please...




Gerda wheels Lili out in a wheelchair, Hans holding the door
open for her to pass. A glance between him and Gerda, then
he leaves the women alone.

Gerda is settles herself in a chair beside Lili, rests her
hand on Lili's arm. The birch trees in Spring leaf. A light
breeze makes them quiver. Lili's breathing is shallow. We
feel the depth of love between the women, and the
precariousness of their situation.


             You mustn't worry about me any
             more, Gerda.







             It's an old habit.   I'm slow to
             change.


             How have I ever deserved such love?

Gerda struggles to remain composed.

                       LILI 
             I'm sorry you were frightened.
             There's nothing to be afraid of any
             more.


             No.


             You know, last night, I had the
             most beautiful dream... I dreamed I
             was a baby in my mother's arms...
             and she looked down at me... and
             called me Lili...

Gerda is amazed, deeply moved...


             Lili...

Lili's features arrange themselves into an expression of
perfect joy as she sinks back into something which Gerda
gradually sees is deeper than sleep...

                        GERDA 
             Lili...

Gerda clutches the hand... No response...       Smooths the
brow... still nothing...

                        GERDA 
             Lili...?

Gerda presses Lili's hand against her cheek, overwhelmed with
grief. Lili looks blissfully happy. The dawn light grows
stronger in the garden...




Hans' car rolls into the bleak landscape. Hans and Gerda
inside. Gerda looks out - at a landscape she knows with
absolute intimacy, although she's never been here before.
It's all here... the imagery from Einar's paintings, singing
with life... A wild stretch of rocky green under soft
northern light, a row of beautiful black-limbed trees, bent
over, but not broken, by the wind...









Hans tails Gerda. She battles the incredible gusts of salt
air, the bright scarf flying like a flag at her throat. She
pushes on, closer to the cliff edge... Finally she reaches
an amazing vantage point, is stunned by the view: a rectangle
of ferociously stormy sea, silver waves whipped by a wind
that stings, relentless. We hear the RUSTLE and PUNCH of the
weather going at her. Hans joins her. They stand there
looking out until they can hardly breathe any more.

Hans takes her armto steady her, but as she turns toward him
the wind rips up under the bright scarf, snatches it into the
air. Gerda GASPS - a moment of loss - but then, something
else... As Hans hurries to try and catch it -


          No - leave it..!   Leave it..

She pulls him back, watches it dance, tears of joy in her
eyes...


          Let it fly...

The scarf swoops up and dives down, curls and rolls, as free
as child... a girl at play. Gerda clutches her coat at her
breast, almost delirious at the beauty of it. Hans watches
with her - the absurdly joyous spectacle of it, a stunning
farewell. And as the scarf dances out from the cliff, out to
sea... into eternity...









