
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind 
by Charlie Kaufman.



It's grand and modern.  Random House-Knopf-Taschen is etched
on the wall in large gold letters.  An old woman enters
carrying a tattered manuscript, maybe a thousand pages.  She
seems haunted, hollow-eyed, sickly.  The young receptionist,
dressed in a shiny, stretchy one-piece pantsuit, looks up.


	Oh, hi.


		
	Hi, I was in the neighborhood and thought
	I'd see --


	I think he's in a conference.
	Unfortunately.  I'm really sorry.


	Would you just try him?  You never know.
	As long as I'm here.  You never know.


	Of course.  Please have a seat.

The old woman smiles and sits, the bulky manuscript on her
lap.  She stares politely straight ahead.


		
	It's her -- I know, but couldn't you just
	-- Yes, I know, but -- I know, but she's
	old and it would be a nice -- Yes, sorry.
		
	I'm sorry, ma'am, he's not in right now.
	It's a crazy time of year for us.

The receptionist gestures toward a Christmas tree in the
corner.  Its ornaments are holograms.


	This book -- It's essential that people
	read it because --
		(gravely, patting the
		 manuscript)
	-- It's the truth.  And only I know it.


		
	Maybe after the holidays then.



The old woman carries her manuscript haltingly down a subway
hall.  She stops to catch her breath, then continues and
passes several archway with letters printed above them.  When
she arrives at one topped by an LL, she slips a card in a
slot.  A plastic molded chair drops into the archway.  She
sits in the chair; it rises.



The woman is still in the chair as it slips gracefully into a
line of chairs shooting through a glass tube.  The other
chairs are peopled with commuters.  We stay with the woman as
she and the others travel over New York City in the tube.
There are hundreds of these commuter tubes crisscrossing the
skyline.  The woman glances at the manuscript in her lap.
It's called:

Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind

This serves as the movie's opening title.  The other credits
follow, as the old woman studies commuters in passing tubes.
Their faces are variously harsh and sad and lonely and blank.





Every doctor's office waiting room: chairs against the wall,
magazines on end tables, a sad-looking potted plant, generic
seascape paintings on the walls.  The receptionist, Mary, 25,
can be seen typing in the reception area.  Behind her are
shelves and shelves of medical files.  The door opens and
Clementine enters.  She's in her early thirties, zaftig in a
faux fur winter coat over an orange hooded sweatshirt.  She's
decidedly funky and has blue hair.  Mary looks up.


	May I help you?


		
	Yeah, hi, I have a one o'clock with Dr.
	Mierzwiak.  Clementine Kruczynski.


	Yes, please have a seat.  He'll be right
	with you.

Clementine sits.  She looks tired, maybe hungover.  She picks
up a magazine at random and thumbs without interest.



Mary pads down the hallway.  She knocks on a closed door.


	Yes?

Mary opens the door, peeks in.  Howard Mierzwiak, 40's,
professional, dry, sits behind his desk studying some papers.


	Howard, your one o'clock.


		
	Thanks, Mary.  You can bring her in.

She smiles and nods.  It's clear she's in love.  It's equally
clear that Mierzwiak doesn't have a clue.  Mary turns to
leave.


		
	Mary...


		
	Yes?


	Order me a pastrami for after?


	Cole slaw, ice tea?


		
	Thanks.


	Welcome, Howard.

She smiles and heads down the hall.  Stan, 30's, tall,
spindly, and earnest in a lab coat pops out of a doorway.


	Boo.


	Hi.

She glances back nervously at Mierzwiak's open door.


	Barely seen you all morning, kiddo.

He leans in to kiss her.  She cranes her neck to keep him
off.


		
	Stan... c'mon...


	Sorry.  I just --


		
	It's just...y'know... I mean...


	I know.  Anyway --


	Anyway, I've got to do my tap
	dance here.

She indicates the door to the reception area.  Stan nods.


	See you later, alligator.


	'kay.


	Hey, if you're ordering lunch for
	Mierzwiak, would you --


	I better do this, Stan.

Stan nods again and Mary opens the door to the waiting room.


	Ms. Kruczynski?


	Hi.

After a moment, Clementine appears in the doorway.  Mary
leads her down the hall, not looking back.


		
	How are you today?


	Okay, I guess.


		
	Here we are.

Mierzwiak steps out from behind his desk.


	Ms. Kruczynski, please come in.

Clementine enters the office.  Mary smiles at Mierzwiak and
closes the door, leaving them alone.



Mierzwiak directs Clementine to a chair next to a coffee
table and a conspicuously placed box of tissues.  Mierzwiak
sits across from her.  He smiles.


	How are you today?


	Okay, I guess.


		
	Well, why don't you tell me what's going
	on?  Do you mind if I turn this on?

He indicates a tape recorder.


	I don't care.

He turns it on, smiles at her, gestures for her to begin.


	Well, I've been having a bad time of it
	with um, my boyfriend, I guess.


	You guess he's your boyfriend?  Or you
	guess you're having a bad time with hm?


	What?  No.  I don't like the term
	boyfriend.  It's so gay.

Mierzwiak nods.  He's attentive, pleasant, and neutral
throughout.


	Maybe gay isn't the right word.  But,
	anyway, it's been rough with him...
	whatever the fuck he is.  Heheh.  My
	significant other... heh heh.  And I
	guess on a certain level, I want to break
	it off, but I feel... y'know... it's like
	this constant questioning and re
	questioning.  Do I end it?  Should I give
	it more time?  I'm not happy, but what do
	I expect?  Relationships require work.
	You know the drill.  The thing that I
	keep coming back to is, I'm not getting
	any younger, I want to have a baby... at
	some point... maybe... right?  So then I
	think I should settle -- which is not
	necessarily the best word -- I mean, he's
	a good guy.  It's not really settling.
	Then I think maybe I'm just a victim of
	movies, y'know?  That I have some
	completely unrealistic notion of what a
	relationship can be.  But then I think,
	no, this is what I really want, so I
	should allow myself the freedom to go out
	and fucking find it.  You know?  Agreed?
	But then I think he is a good guy and...
	It's complicated.  Y'know?


	I think I know. I think we can help.  Why
	don't you start by telling me about your
	relationship.  Everything you can think
	of.  Everything about him.  Everything
	about you.  And we'll take it from there.

She nods, thinks.


	Um, well, he's a fucking tidy one --





The platform is crowded with business commuters.  Joel is
among them.  He is in his 30's, gaunt, and holding a
briefcase.  The platform across the tracks from him is empty.
Suddenly he turns and makes his way through the crowd.  He
climbs the stairs, crosses the overpass to the empty
platform.  Soon an almost empty train pulls up to that
platform.  Joel gets on and watches the business commuters
through the dirty window as his train pulls out of the
station.



Joel talks on a phone.  The wind howls around him.  He tries
to shield the mouthpiece as he talks.


	Hi, Cindy.  Joel.  Listen, I'm not
	feeling well this morning.  No.  Food
	poisoning, I think.  Sorry it took me so
	long to call in, but I've been vomiting.



Joel wanders the windy, empty beach, with his briefcase.  He
passes an old man with a metal detector.  They nod at each
other.

Later: Joel looks out at the ocean.

Later: Joel sits on a rock and pulls out a notebook.  He
opens it and writes with a gloved hand.


	January 13th, 2006.  Today I skipped work
	and took the train out to Montauk.
		
	It's cold.
		
	The sky is gray.
		
	I don't know what else to say.  Nothing
	happens.  Nothing changes.  I saw Naomi
	last night.  We had sex.  It was weird to
	fall into our old familiar sex life so
	easily.  Like no time has passed.  After
	two years apart suddenly we're talking
	about getting together again.  I guess
	that's good.

He has no other thoughts.  He glances up, spots a female
figure in the distance, walking in his direction.  She stands
out against the gray in a fluorescent orange hooded
sweatshirt.  It's Clementine.  He watches her for a bit, then
as she nears, he goes back to his writing, or at least
pretends to.  Once she passed, he watches her walk away.  She
stops and stares out at the ocean.  Joel writes.


	If I'm constitutionally incapable of
	making eye-contact with a woman I don't
	know.  I guess I'd better get back to
	Naomi.

Later: Joel walks up near the beach houses closed for the
season.  He peeks cautiously in a dark window.

Later: Joel digs into the sand with a stick.



It's a local tourist place, but off-season empty.  Joel sits
in a booth and eats a grilled cheese sandwich and a bowl of
tomato soup.  An elderly couple drink coffee at the counter.
Clementine enters, looks around, takes off her hood.  Joel
glances at her bright blue hair.  She picks an empty booth
and sits.  Joel studies her discreetly.  The waitress
approaches her with a coffee pot.


	Coffee?


	God, yes.  You've saved my life!

The waitress pours the coffee.


	You know what you want yet?


		
	Ain't that the question of the century.

The waitress is not amused.


	You got grilled cheese and tomato soup?


	Yeah.  We're having a run on it.

The waitress heads to the grill.  Clementine fishes in her
bag, brings the coffee cup under the table for a moment,
pours something in, then brings the cup back up.


		
	And some cream, please.

Clementine looks around the place.  Her eyes meet Joel's
before he is able to look away.  She smiles vaguely.  He
looks embarrassed, then down at his journal.  Clementine
pulls a book from her purse and starts to read.  Joel glances
up, tries to see the cover.  It's blue.  He can't read the
title.



Joel stares out at the ocean.  Far down the beach Clementine
stares at it, too.  Joel glances sideways at her then back at
the ocean.



Joel sits on the bench waiting for a train.  Clementine
enters the platform, sees Joel, the only other person there.
She waves, sort of goofily enthusiastic, playing as if
they're old friends.  He waves back, embarrassed.  She takes
a seat on a bench far down the platform.  Joel stares at his
hands, pulls out his journal and tries to write in order to
conceal his awkwardness.



Joel sits at the far end of the empty car and watches the
slowly passing desolate terrain.  After a moment the door
between cars opens and Clementine enters.  Joel looks up.
Clementine is not looking at him; she busies herself deciding
where to sit.  She settles on a seat at the opposite end of
the car.  Joel looks out the window.  He feels her watching
him.  The train is picking up speed.  Finally:


		
	Hi!

Joel looks over.


	I'm sorry.


	Why?


	Why what?


	Why are you sorry?  I just said hi.


	No, I didn't know if you were talking to
	me, so...

She looks around the empty car.


	Really?


		
	Well, I didn't want to assume.


	Aw, c'mon, live dangerously.  Take the
	leap and assume someone is talking to you
	in an otherwise empty car.


	Anyway.  Sorry.  Hi.

Clementine makes her way down the aisle towards Joel.


	It's okay if I sit closer?  So I don't
	have to scream.  Not that I don't need to
	scream sometimes, believe me.
		
	But I don't want to bug you if you're
	trying to write or something.


	No, I mean, I don't know.  I can't really
	think of much to say probably.


	Oh.  So...

She hesitates in the middle of the car, looks back where she
came from.


	I mean, it's okay if you want to sit down
	here.  I didn't mean to --


	No, I don't want to bug you if you're
	trying to --


	It's okay, really.


	Just, you know, to chat a little, maybe.
	I have a long trip ahead of me.
		
	How far are you going?  On the train, I
	mean, of course.


	Rockville Center.


	Get out!  Me too!  What are the odds?


	The weirder part is I think actually I
	recognize you.  I thought that earlier in
	the diner.  That's why I was looking at
	you.  You work at Borders, right?


	Ucch, really?  You're kidding.  God.
	Bizarre small world, huh?  Yeah, that's
	me: book slave there for, like, five
	years now.


	Really?  Because --


	Jesus, is it five years?  I gotta quit
	right now.


	-- because I go there all the time.  I
	don't think I ever saw you before.


	Well, I'm there.  I hide in the back as
	much as is humanly possible.  You have a
	cell phone?  I need to quit right this
	minute.  I'll call in dead.


	I don't have one.


	I'll go on the dole.  Like my daddy
	before me.


	I noticed your hair.  I guess it made an
	impression on me, that's why I was pretty
	sure I recognized you.


	Ah, the hair.
		(pulls a strand in front of her
		 eyes, studies it)
	Blue, right?  It's called Blue Ruin.  The
	color.  Snappy name, huh?


	I like it.


	Blue ruin is cheap gin in case you were
	wondering.


	Yeah.  Tom Waits says it in --


	Exactly!  Tom Waits.  Which song?


	I can't remember.


	Anyway, this company makes a whole line
	of colors with equally snappy names.  Red
	Menace, Yellow Fever, Green Revolution.
	That'd be a job, coming up with those
	names.  How do you get a job like that?
	That's what I'll do.  Fuck the dole.


	I don't really know how --


	Purple Haze, Pink Eraser.


	You think that could possibly be a full
	time job?  How many hair colors could
	there be?


		
	Someone's got that job.
		
	Agent Orange!  I came up with that one.
	Anyway, there are endless color
	possibilities and I'd be great at it.


	I'm sure you would.


	My writing career!  Your hair written by
	Clementine Kruczynski.
		
	The Tom Waits album is Rain Dogs.


	You sure?  That doesn't sound --


	I think.  Anyway, I've tried all their
	colors.  More than once.  I'm getting too
	old for this.  But it keeps me from
	having to develop an actual personality.
	I apply my personality in a paste.  You?


	Oh, I doubt that's the case.


	Well, you don't know me, so... you don't
	know, do you?


	Sorry.  I was just trying to be nice.


	Yeah, I got it.

There's a silence.


	My name's Clementine, by the way.


	I'm Joel.


	No jokes about my name?  Oh, you wouldn't
	do that; you're trying to be nice.


	I don't know any jokes about your name.


	Huckleberry Hound?


	I don't know what that means.


	Huckleberry Hound!  What, are you nuts?


	I'm nut nuts.


		
	Oh my darlin', oh my darlin', oh my
	darlin' Clementine?  No?


	Sorry.  It's a pretty name, though.  It
	means "merciful", right?


		
	Yeah.  Although it hardly fits.  I'm a
	vindictive little bitch, truth be told.


	See, I wouldn't think that about you.


		
	Why wouldn't you think that about me?


	Oh.  I don't know.  I was just... I don't
	know.  I was... You seemed nice, so --


	Now I'm nice?  Don't you know any other
	adjectives?  There's careless and snotty
	and overbearing and argumentative...
	mumpish.


	Well, anyway... Sorry.

They sit in silence for a while.


	I just don't think "nice" is a
	particularly interesting thing to be.

The conductor enters the car.


	Tickets.

Joel hands the conductor his ticket.  The conductor punches
it and hands it back.


	What is nice, anyway?  I mean, besides an
	adjective?  I guess it can be an adverb,
	sort of.

The conductor turns to Clementine.  She fishes in her bag.


	It doesn't reveal anything.  Nice is
	pandering.  Cowardly.


	And life is more interesting than that.
	Or should be.  Jesus God, I hope it is...
	someday.
		
	I know it's here.

The conductor and Joel watch as she gets more agitated.


	I don't need nice.  I don't need myself
	to be it and I don't need anyone else to
	be it at me.


	Okay.


	Shit.  Shit.  I know it's here.  Hold on.

She dumps the contents of the bag onto the seat and sifts
frantically through.  Joel sees the book she was reading in
the diner.  It's The Play by Stephen Dixon.


	Damn it.  DAMN IT!
		
	Oh.  Here.

She hands the conductor the tickets, smiles sweetly.  He
punches it, hands it back to her, and walks away.


	Next stop Southampton.

The conductor heads into the next car.  Clementine shoves
stuff back into her purse.  Her hands are a little shaky.
She pulls a airline-sized bottle of alcohol from her pocket,
opens it, and downs it.  Joel is watching all of this but
pretending not to.  She looks out the window for a while.
The train pulls into the station.  The doors open.  Nobody
gets on.  The doors close.  The train pulls out.


	Joel?  It's Joel, right?


	Yes?


	I'm sorry I... yelled at you.  Was it
	yelling?  I can't really tell.  Whatever,
	I'm a little out of sorts today.


	That's okay.


		
	My embarrassing admission is I really
	like that you're nice.  Right now,
	anyway.  I can't tell from one moment to
	the next what I'm going to like.  But
	right now I'm glad you said, "that's
	okay" to me.  That was nice of you.


	It's no problem.  Anyway, I have some
	stuff I need to --


	Oh, okay.  Well, sure, I'll just...
		(stands, throws bag over
		 shoulder)
	Take care, then.


		(pulling journal from
		 briefcase)
	Probably see you at the book store.


		(heading toward other end of
		 car)
	Unless I get that hair-color-naming job.

Clementine sits and stares out the window.



There are a few more people in the car now.  Clementine has
inched a few seats closer to Joel.  She watches him.  His
head is immersed in his journal.



It's dark out.  The train is pretty crowded.  Joel stares out
the window.  Clementine sits closer still to Joel, eyes him.



The doors open and Joel emerges along with others.  He heads
to the parking lot, arrives at the car.  There's a big dented
scrape along the driver's side.  He gets in.



Joel drives.  He passes Clementine walking.  She looks cold.
He considers, slows, rolls down his window.


	Hi.  I could give you a ride if you need.


	No, that's okay.  Thanks, though.


	You're sure?  It's cold.


	I don't want to take you out of your way.


	It's okay.


	Yeah?

He pulls over.  She climbs in.  They drive.


	Where do you live?


	You're not a stalker or anything, right?


	Well, I probably wouldn't say if I were,
	but no.


	You can't be too careful.  I've been
	stalked.  I've been told I'm highly
	stalkable.  I don't need that.


	I'm not a stalker.


		
	You know Wilmont?


	Yeah.


	Wilmont.  Near the high school.

Joel turns.  They drive in silence.


	Look, I'm very sorry I came off sort of
	nutso.  I'm not really.


	It's okay.  I didn't think you were.

There's a silence.


	So you like bookstores, huh?


	I like to read.


	Me too.  It is Rain Dogs, by the way.


	Yeah?  I can't remember that album very
	well.  I remember liking it.  But --


	The song's 9th and Hennepin.  I spent
	most of the train ride trying to
	remember.  "Till you're full of rag water
	and bitters and blue ruin/And you spill
	out/Over the side to anyone who'll
	listen."  Remember?


	Sort of, um...


	Remember?  "And you take on the dreams of
	the ones who have slept there/And I'm
	lost in the window/I hide on the
	stairway/I hang in the curtain/I sleep in
	your hat..."
		
	Oh, shit.  I'm so stupid.  Sorry.


	What?


	I'm just a bit of a wreck.  "I sleep in
	your hat" makes me cry.
		
	Me.

Joel pulls over.


	Thanks very much.  That was very nice of
	you.


	Well, I wouldn't want to be --


	Oh, geez, I'm full of shit.  I already
	told you that.
		
	Anyway.  See Ya.

Clementine opens the car door.


	Take care.


		
	Hey, do you want to have a drink?  I have
	lots of drinks.  And I could --


	Um --


	Never mind.  Sorry, that was stupid.  I'm
	embarrassed.  Good night, Joel.



Joel stands in the living room, somewhat nervously.  He tries
to calm himself by focusing on the surroundings.  He looks at
the books on her shelves.  Clementine is in the kitchen.  We
see her as she passes by the doorway several times, preparing
drinks and chatting.


	Thanks.  I like it, too.  Been here about
	four years.  It's really cheap.  My
	downstairs neighbor is old so she's
	quiet, which is great.  And the
	landlord's sweet, which is bizarre, but
	great, and I have a little porch in the
	back, which is great, because I can read
	there, and listen to my crickets and...

Clementine is in the living room now with two gin and tonics.


	Two blue ruins...

Joel is looking at a framed black and white photograph of
crows flying.


	You like that?


	Very much.


	This... someone gave that to me, just
	like, recently.  I like it, too.  I like
	crows.  I think I used to be a crow.

She caws and hands Joel a drink.


	Thanks.  That was good, that crow sound.


	Do you believe in that stuff?
	Reincarnation?


	I don't know.


	Me neither.  Oh, there's an inscription
	on the back.
		
	The way a crow/Shook down on me/The dust
	of snow/From a hemlock tree/Has given my
	heart/A change of mood/And saved some
	part/Of a day I rued.


	Frost?


		
	Yeah.  I'm not, like, a Robert Frost
	lover by any stretch.  His stuff seems
	strictly grade school to me.  But this
	made me cry for some reason.  Maybe
	because it is grade school.  Y'know?


	It's pretty.


	I miss grade school.  I don't know why
	I'm calling it grade school all of a
	sudden.  When I went we called it
	elementary school.  But I like grade
	school better.  Sounds like something
	someone from the forties would call it.
	I'd like to be from then.  Everyone wore
	hats.  Anyway, cheers!


	Cheers.

They click glasses.  Clementine giggles and takes a big gulp
of her drink.  Joel sips.  She plops down on the couch and
pulls her boots off.


	God, that feels so fucking good.  Take
	yours off.


	I'm fine.


	Yeah?  Well, have a seat, anyway.

Joel sits in a chair across the room.  Clementine finishes
her drink.


	Ready for another?


	No, I'm okay for now.

She heads toward the kitchen with her glass.


	Well, I'm ready.  Put some music on.

Joel crosses to the CD's and studies them.


	What do you want to hear?


	You pick it.


	You just say.  I'm not really --


	I don't know!  I can't see them from
	here, Joel!  Just pick something good.

Joel studies the unfamiliar CD's.  He picks up Bang On a Can
performing Brian Eno's Music for Airports to look at.
Clementine reenters with her drink.


	Oh, excellent choice.

She grabs it and sticks it in the CD player.  The music is
dreamy and haunting and slow.  Clementine falls back onto the
couch, closes her eyes and sips her drink.


	Mmmmmmm.  Way to go, Joel.  You pick
	good.

Joel sits down in his chair and drinks.  There's a silence,
which seems fine to Clementine but makes Joel anxious.


	Well, I should probably get going.


	No, stay.  Just for a little while.
		
	Refill?


	No.  I --


	I know a man who needs a refill.

She grabs Joel's drink from his hand, takes it into the
kitchen.


	God bless alcohol, is what I say.  Where
	would I be without it.  Oh, Jesus, Mary,
	and Joseph, maybe I don't want to think
	about that.

She giggles.  Joel looks around the room again.  There are
several potatoes dressed as women in beautiful handmade
costumes: a nurse potato, a stripper potato, a schoolteacher
potato, a housewife potato.  Clementine returns with Joel's
drink and a refill for herself.


	Thanks.


	Drink up, young man.  It'll make the
	whole seduction part less repugnant.

Joel looks a little alarmed.


	I'm just kidding.  C'mon.

She sits back on the couch, closes her eyes.  Joel watches
her, looks at her breasts.  She opens her eyes, smiles
drunkenly at him.


	Y'know, I'm sort of psychic.


	Yeah?


	Well, I go to a psychic and she's always
	telling me I'm psychic.  She should know.
	Do you believe in that stuff?


	I don't know.


	Me neither.  But sometimes I have
	premonitions, so, I don't know.  Maybe
	that's just coincidence.  Right?  Y'know,
	you think something and then it happens,
	or you think a word and then someone says
	it?  Y'know?


	Yeah, I don't know.  It's hard to know.


	Exactly.  Exactly!  That's exactly my
	feeling about it.  It's hard to know.
	Like, okay, but how many times do I think
	something and it doesn't happen?  That's
	what you're saying, right?  You forget
	about those times.  Right?


	Yeah, I guess.


		
	But I think I am.  I like to think I am.


	It's helpful to think there's some order
	to things.  You're kind of closed
	mouthed, aren't you?


	Sorry.  My life isn't that interesting.
	I go to work.  I go home.  I don't know
	what to say.


	Oh.
		
	Does that make you sad?  Or anxious?  I'm
	always anxious thinking I'm not living my
	life to the fullest, y'know?  Taking
	advantage of every possibility?  Just
	making sure that I'm not wasting one
	second of the little time I have.


	I think about that.

She looks at him really hard for a long moment.  Joel tries
to hold her gaze, but can't.  He looks down at his drink.
Clementine starts to cry again.


	You're really nice.  I'm sorry I yelled
	at you before about it.  God, I'm an
	idiot.


	I do have a tendency to use that word too
	much.


	I like you.  That's the thing about my
	psychic thing.  I think that's my
	greatest psychic power, that I get a
	sense about people.  My problem is I
	never trust it.  But I get it.  And with
	you I get that you're a really good guy.


	Thanks.


	And, anyway, you sell yourself short.  I
	can tell.  There's a lot of stuff going
	on in your brain.  I can tell.  My
	goal... can I tell you my goal?


	Yeah.


		
	What's the goal, Joel?
		
	My goal, Joel, is to just let it flow
	through me?  Do you know what I mean?
	It's like, there's all these emotions and
	ideas and they come quick and they change
	and they leave and they come back in a
	different form and I think we're all
	taught we should be consistent.  Y'know?
	You love someone -- that's it.  Forever.
	You choose to do something with your life
	-- that's it, that's what you do.  It's a
	sign of maturity to stick with that and
	see things through.  And my feeling is
	that's how you die, because you stop
	listening to what is true, and what is
	true is constantly changing.  You know?


	Yeah.  I think so.  It's hard to --


	Like I wanted to talk to you.  I didn't
	need any more reason to do it.  Who knows
	what bigger cosmic reason might exist?


	Yeah.


	You're very nice.  God, I have to stop
	saying that.  You're nervous around me,
	huh?


	No.


	I'm nervous.  You don't need to be
	nervous around me, though.  I like you.
	Do you think I'm repulsively fat?


	No, not at all.


	I don't either.  I used to.  But I'm
	through with that.  Y'know, if I don't
	love my body, then I'm just lost.  You
	know?


	With all the wrinkles and scars and the
	general falling apart that's coming
	'round the bend.
		
	So, I've been seeing this guy...

Joel looks slightly crestfallen.


		
	Well, for the last week, anyway!  He's
	kind of a kid.  Kind of a goofball, but
	he's really stuck on me, which is
	flattering.  Who wouldn't like that?  And
	he's, like, a dope, but he says these
	smart and moving things sometimes, out of
	nowhere, that just break my heart.  He's
	the one who gave me that crow photograph.


	Oh, yeah.


	That made me cry.  But, anyway, we went
	up to Boston, because I had this urge to
	lie on my back on the Charles River.  It
	gets frozen this time of year.


	That's scary sounding.


	Exactly!  I used to do it in college and
	I had this urge to go do it again, so I
	got Patrick and we drove all night to get
	there and he was sweet and said nice
	things to me, but I was really
	disappointment to be there with him.
	Y'know?  And that's where psychic stuff
	comes in.  Like, it just isn't right with
	him.  Y'know?


	I think so.


	I don't believe in that soulmate crap
	anymore, but... he says so many great
	things.  We like the same writers.  This
	writer Stephen Dixon he turned me on to.
	And he's cute.  It's fucked up.  Joel,
	you should come up to the Charles with me
	sometime.


	Okay.


	Yeah?  Oh, great!

She sits closer to him.


	I'll pack a picnic -- a night picnic --
	night picnics are different -- and --


		
	Sounds good.  But right now I should go.


		
	You should stay.


	I have to get up early in the morning
	tomorrow, so...


		
	Okay.

Joel puts on his overcoat.  Clementine heads to the phone
table, pulls out a notepad.


	I would like you to call me.  Would you
	do that?  I would like that.


	Yes.

She scribbles her phone number, hands it to him.  He puts it
in his pocket.  He stands there uncomfortably for a moment,
then forces himself to speak.


	I don't think your personality comes out
	of a tube.  I think the hair is just... a
	pretty topping.

She tears up, swallows, and kisses him on the cheek.  He's
surprised and pleased and nervous.


		
	So, I enjoyed meeting you.


	You'll call me, right?


	Yeah.


	When?


	Tomorrow?


	Tonight.  Just to test out the phone
	lines and all.


	Okay.

We stay with Clementine as she watches Joel tromping through
the snow and getting in his car.



Joel speeds through the suburban Rockville Center
neighborhood.  There is no snow on the ground.  He seems
different, somehow foggy and disoriented.



He arrives at his apartment building and parks.



Joel gets out of his car, spots a van parked across the
street.  There are two dark figures inside.


	Them.

He hurries inside the building.



Joel enters, dumps his overcoat on a chair, turns off the
lights, crosses to look furtively out the window.  It's
snowing in large flakes which seem to fall only in the beam
of a streetlight.


	It was snowing.


	There are two of them.  Couldn't make
	them out.  The orange glow of a
	cigarette.

Joel squints to see inside the van.  Two dark figures talk.
One sucks on a cigarette and s dim orange light momentarily
illuminates the interior.  The figure in the driver seat
rolls down his window and gives a cheery wave to Joel.


	The driver waved.  So casual, friendly.


	I'm like a joke to them.

Joel pulls away from the window, his face blanched.


	I guess they figure they can act like
	they want.  They don't have to worry
	about me remembering.

He paces, mulling things over.  As he does, the scene starts
to change, almost as if it is drying out.


	I might be making a mistake.


	Maybe I'm making a mistake.  Maybe I just
	need to learn to live with this.  First
	of all, I'll get over it.  Secondly, it
	happened.  Those who do not remember
	history are condemned to repeat it.  Who
	said that?  Churchill?  I'm not sure.
	But I don't care.  She did it to me.  I
	have to rid myself of this.  Fuck her.


	Fuck you, Clementine.

The colors bleach, the surroundings become slightly vague.
Even Joel's persona and voice-over seem to alter, his
emotional intensity becoming diffused.  Joel does not seem
aware of this.  He stops pacing, takes a small vial from his
pocket, dumps the lone pill onto his palm.  He looks at it.
It's pink.  There's some illegible initials stamped on it.


	Pink.
		
	There was a number on it.  I remember.

		
	I have to follow through with this.  I
	have no choice.


	The pill was pink, I remember.  It had
	some letters and numbers on it.  What
	were they?  AL 1718?  AL something.  Four
	digits.  I don't like taking pills when I
	don't know what they are.  I have no
	choice.

He swallows it, peeks out the window again, takes off his
clothes, slips into a pair of pajamas fresh from the store
packaging.  He sits on the edge of the bed, dials the phone.


	We're sorry, the number you have
	dialed...
		
	Screw you, Clementine, for doing this ...


	We're sorry, the number you have dialed
	is no longer in service.  If you think
	you have reached this recording in error



	Bye.

Joel hangs up and lies on his back on the bed.  By now the
scene is lifeless, almost a husk.  He hears the apartment
building door open.  He hears footsteps.


	It's them.


	It's too late.

His eyelids are getting heavy.  He closes his eyes.



He hears a key in his apartment door.


	Fuck.



Joel sits in the bookstore coffee shop.  It's a jarring
transition, visually and emotionally.  Joel is in the midst
of some traumatic state of mind.
He fingers the vial with the pink pill in it as he watches
Clementine stack books on shelves.  Her hair is bright orange
now.


	I should maybe talk to you.


	Clementine.  I should just maybe talk to
	her.

Joel rises and heads toward Clementine.


	I love you and if you knew that... if I
	told you what happened...  I'll explain
	everything, what we meant to each other.
	I'll tell you everything about our time
	together.  You'll know everything again
	and...


	Maybe if I just explain what happened, I
	wouldn't have to go through this and I
	could tell you everything and it would be
	like you knew and we could rebuild and we
	could be happy again and...

Right before Joel gets there, Patrick, a skinny young man
approaches Clementine.  Joel stops, watches.  The young man
seems out of breath.  He glances over at Joel, then taps
Clementine on the shoulder.  She turns, annoyed, sees who it
is and her face lights up.


	Clementine.


	That's your look for me.

Clementine giggles, stands and pokes Patrick playfully in the
ribs.


	I just thought I'd say hi.  I was in the
	neighborhood.


	You were not.


	I was not.

Joel is mesmerized by their familiarity.  As he stands there,
the scene starts to dry out.
Clementine and Patrick continue their flirtation but it's
turning lifeless, as if they are just reciting lines.  The
bookstore start to lose its color and immediacy.


	Come over after I'm done here?


	I can't.  I want to, but I have to study.


	You rat.


	I really want to, but tonight's
	important.  Test tomorrow.


	How could she have done this to me?  How
	could anyone do this to anyone?


		
	You didn't say anything about my hair.


	It's so cool.  You're by far the most
	sensational person in the room.


	In the room?


	In the world.

Joel seems dazed, in some sort of dream confusion, as he
realizes the world around him is looking increasingly odd.


	What's happening here?
		
	Oh, God!  I have to go home.  They'll be
	there soon.

Joel turns to leave.



Joel drives fast, recklessly.  The intensity is back.  He's
weeping as he drives.


	Gotta get home.  How could she do this to
	me?
	How could she not care about what we
	meant to each other.  What a fuck!  What
	a fucking monster she is!


	Oh, God.  I miss her.  I can't believe
	she's with that guy now!  I'm never going
	to see her again.  I love her so much.
	What a fucking monster she is!

The scene is faded as he parks in front of his apartment
building, and gets out of the car.  Joel spots the parked
van.  We've seen this before, but it's dried out now.


	Them.



Joel trudges along carrying two big trash bags full of stuff.
He's been crying.  He looks behind him and finds himself
looking out the window of his apartment at the dark van on
the snowy street.  He turns back to the New York Street and
spots the address he was looking for: 610 11th Avenue.



Joel sits in the small room with his bags.  A woman across
from him cradles a box full of belongings in her lap.  Her
eyes are red from crying.  Mary, the receptionist, pokes her
head through her window into the waiting room.


	Hello again, Mr. Barish.  Good, you've
	got your stuff.



Joel walks with his bags behind Mary.


		
	How are you today?
		
	Here we are.



Joel enters.  Mierzwiak stands there with Stan in his lab
coat.


	Ah, Mr. Barish.  This is Stan.  He'll be
	in charge of your procedure tonight.

Stan nods professionally.


	Mr. Barish.


	How exactly is this going to work
	tonight?

As Mierzwiak talks, the room colors start to fade,
Mierzwiak's tone of voice is also affected; it becomes dry
and monotonous.


	We'll start with your most recent
	memories and go backwards -- There is an
	emotional core to each of our memories --
	As we eradicate this core, it starts its
	degradation process --  By the time you
	wake up in the morning, all memories
	we've targeted will have withered and
	disappeared.  Like a dream upon waking.


	Is there any sort of risk of brain
	damage?


	Well, technically, the procedure itself
	is brain damage, but on a par with a
	night of heavy drinking.  Nothing you'll
	miss.

Joel looks quizzically at the eroding environment.  Suddenly
he gets it.


	It's happening now!  I'm already in my
	brain.

Mierzwiak looks at the fading room.


	Yes, I suppose you are.
		(back in his faded memory
		 persona)
	So, let's get started -- If we want the
	procedure underway tonight, we have some
	work to do.

Joel is sitting in a chair.  Electrodes connect him to some
electronic machinery monitored by Stan.  Mierzwiak watches
from the corner.


	We use the articles you brought to create
	a map of Clementine in your brain.
	Tonight while you sleep we'll be able to
	trace the map and erase.


	But you're tracing and erasing now.  It's
	already started.  I'm home in my bed.

Stan pulls a snow globe from one of Joel's bags, shows it to
Joel.  The equipment registers Joel's reaction.


	Very good.

Stan pulls out a potato dressed as a Vegas showgirl.  Joel
studies it.  The machines register his response.


	We'll dispose of these mementos when
	we're done here.  That way you won't be
	confused later by their unexplainable
	presence in your home.

Stan pulls out a coffee mug with a photo of Clementine
printed on it.  Joel looks at the cup.  The machines record
his reaction.


	Good.  We're getting healthy read-outs.

The room, Stan, and Mierzwiak are now vague and wispy.


	Patrick, do me a favor --

Joel is watching Stan.  Stan is not speaking, yet his voice
continues.


	-- and check the voltage levels, I'm not
	wiping as clean as I would like here.

Joel looks up.  Stan's voice seems to be coming from above.



Joel lies on his back in fresh pajamas.  His eyes are closed
and electrodes connect his head to several machines.  The
machines are operated by Stan, now in grubby street clothes
and in need of a shave, and by Patrick, dressed similarly.
The monitor on one of the machines traces a myriad of light
blips running like streams through an image of Joel's brain.
Stan presses buttons and operates a joystick, aiming for the
lines.  Patrick (who we saw earlier with Clementine at the
bookstore) studies a meter on one of the machines.


	The voltage looks fine.


	Then check the connections.

Patrick fiddles with some jacks.


	Does that help?


	Yeah, that looks better.  Thanks.



The memory is becoming vague, characters' affects flat.  Stan
pulls out a pile of loose-leaf pages.  Mierzwiak smiles.


	Ah, your journal.  This will be
	invaluable.


		
	December 15th, 2004.  I met someone
	tonight.  Oh, Christ:  I don't know what
	to do.  Her name is Clementine and she's
	amazing.  So alive and spontaneous and
	passionate and sensitive.  Things with
	Naomi and I have been stagnant for so
	long.

The scene is just a shell of itself as Stan rattles on.


	I think we got this one.  Let's push on.

Joel looks up at the ceiling.



Joel, snapped into a new memory, cries as he fills two large
plastic garbage bags with mementos of his relationship with
Clementine.  There are funny little gifts, wind-up toys, some
potatoes dressed as women, some clothing Clementine has left
there, some CD's.  He pulls a big clump of pages out of his
loose-leaf journal and dumps them in the bag.

He gets some clean loose-leaf paper and writes:

December 15, 2004   Nothing much happened today.  I stayed
home.  Naomi worked on her dissertation.

The scene is fading as he continues to write.



Joel looks for an office number.  He finds it.  The plaque on
the door reads Lacuna Ltd.  Joel enters.



Joel enters the Lacuna waiting room.  Mary sits in the
reception area.


	May I help you?


	My name is Joel Barish.  I have an
	appointment.


	Please have a seat.  Dr. Mierzwiak will
	be right with you.



Mary leads Joel down the hall.


		
	How are you today?


	Not great.


		
	Here we are.

Joel glimpses Mary smiling coquettishly at Mierzwiak.



Joel and Mierzwiak are in the sitting area.  Joel looks at
the tape recorder.


	I'm sorry you saw one of our notification
	cards.  You never should have.


	Well... I did.


	We can help you through this.  Why don't
	you start now by telling me everything
	you can remember about your relationship
	with Clementine.


		
	It was a mess.  I don't know how it got
	this way...


	It's kind of a dump, don't you think?

Joel looks up, trying to locate the voice.



Patrick is checking out the apartment.  Stan monitors the
equipment.


		
	It's an apartment.


	Not a dump, then, but kind of plain.
	Uninspired.  And there's a stale smell.
	Sort of stuffy.  I don't know.  Stuffy.


	Patrick, let's just get through this.  We
	have a long night ahead of us.


	Yeah.

Patrick returns to the bedside, focuses on the machines for a
moment.  He glances at the unconscious Joel.


	So who do you think is better-looking, me
	or this guy?

Stan glances sideways at Patrick.



Mierzwiak sits with Joel in the sitting area.


	So we'll need you to go home and bring in
	everything you ever received from
	Clementine and anything that might remind
	you of her...

The scene is faded and disappearing fast.  It's gone.



Joel gets off the elevator and approaches the receptionist.


	So then she just stops calling.


	I wasn't going to call her.  Not after
	the way she was.


	Any messages, Carmen?

Carmen the receptionist shakes her head.

Next day: Joel approaches the receptionist.


	Any messages for me, Carmen.


	Nothing, Joel.


	It's bullshit.  She's punishing me for
	being honest with her.

Joel is at his office desk on the phone.


	You have no messages.



Joel enters, checks his phone machine: zero messages.



Joel gets off the elevator, approaches Carmen, who is in
conversation with someone else.


	Sorry, Carmen.  Any messages?

Carmen shakes her head "no", goes back to her conversation.



Joel checks his machine: zero messages.


	That's it.  I'm just gonna--

Without a moment's hesitation, he dials the phone.


	I'm gonna tell her I'm through playing
	games and --


	The number you have dialed has been
	disconnected.

Joel's eyes bug.



Joel sits across Rob and Carrie, mid-40's.


	Why would she do that?


	-- If you think you have reached this
	recording in error, please check your
	number and dial again.


	I don't know, honey.  It's horrible.


	She's punishing me for being honest.  I
	should just go to her house.


	I don't think you should go there, Joel.


	Yeah, I don't want to seem desperate.


	Maybe you need to look at this as a sign
	to move on.  Just make a clean break.


	I don't know.  I'm so... I can't believe
	she'd be so goddamn immature!


	Joel, look, the thing is --


		
	Joel, honey... We have to feed the dog.
	Would you just wait here?  Just a second.

Joel nods, confused, as Rob and Carrie leave the room and
close the door behind them.  Joel hears a hushed argument
ensue in the hall.  He notices the dog asleep on the floor.
He grabs a magazine off the coffee table, flips through it
distractedly as he paces, puts it down, picks up another.  A
subscription card falls to the floor.  He picks it up and is
about to shove it back in the magazine when he sees it is not
a subscription card at all.  It reads:

 Clementine Kruczynski has had Joel Barish erased from her
  memory.  Please never mention their relationship to her
		 again.  Thank you.

		     Lacuna Ltd.
		     610 11th Avenue, NY, NY

Joel stares at the card, incredulous.

Later: Rob and Carrie are now back in the room.


	You weren't supposed to see that.


	They can't erase memories.  It's a joke.
	It's a nasty Clementine hoax.


	Sweetie, we called the company.

Joel just stands there.

Close-up of a vague dictionary page.


	Lacuna:  Noun.  A blank, a missing
	portion, especially in a manuscript.



Joel is on the phone pacing.


	You can't tell her, Joel.  They explained
	that.  Like waking a sleepwalker.  It
	might have a devastating effect.



Joel drives past vague local landmark.


	Think about it: to be told you lived an
	existence of which you have no
	recollection.


	But what am I supposed to do?


	Move on, sweetie.


	How can I?  How can I move on when I know
	I'm the only one to carry this love we
	had?  How do I do that?



Joel in his parked car next to a fence surrounding a drive-in
movie closed for the season.  He weeps.  The windows fog up
until the outside is completely obscured.



Joel looks for an address.



Joel gets off on the sixth floor.  He searches for a room
number.  As he turns the corner, he sees that the hallway is
faded, vague and mostly erased.  He keeps walking, comes to
the door marked Lacuna and opens it.  Inside he can see
vague, erased version of Mary the receptionist.


		
	Hi, May I help you?

These degraded, faded memories allow Joel to detach himself
and hear what's going on in his bedroom.


	So, Mary's coming over tonight.

Joel looks up.



Stan works the joystick.  Patrick sits on the bed with Joel.


	Yeah?


	Just wanted to let you know.


	I like Mary.  I like when she comes to
	visit.  I just don't think she likes me.


	She likes you okay.


	I wonder if I should invite my girlfriend
	over, too.  I have a girlfriend now.


	You can if you want.


	Did I tell you I have a new girlfriend?


		
	This one's history.  Moving on...


	The thing is ... my situation is a little
	weird.  My girlfriend situation.


	Patrick, we need to focus.

Stan aims the joystick.



Joel distractedly reads a book, checks the clock, goes back
to the book.  The door opens.  He looks up.  Clementine is
staggering in, drunk.


	Yo ho ho!


	It's three.


	Shit.  The last time I saw you.


	Anyhoo, sweetie, I done a bad thing.  I
	kinda sorta wrecked your car...


	I can't believe you wrecked my car.


	You're driving drunk.  It's pathetic.


	...a little.  I was a little tipsy.
	Don't call me pathetic.


	Well it is pathetic.  And fucking
	irresponsible.  You could've killed
	somebody.

The scene is starting to degrade.  The acting becomes anemic.


	I don't know, maybe you did kill
	somebody.


	Oh Christ I didn't kill anybody.  It's
	just a fucking dent.  You're like some
	old lady or something.


	Right!  She called me an old lady here,
	too!  And I remember, I said...


	And what are you like?  A wino?


	A wino?  Jesus, Are you from the fifties?
	A wino!
		
	Face it, Joel.  You're freaked out
	because I was out late without you, and
	in your little wormy brain, you're trying
	to figure out, did she fuck someone
	tonight?


	No, see, Clem, I assume you fucked
	someone tonight.  Isn't that how you get
	people to like you?

This shuts Clementine up.  She is stung and she starts
gathering up her belongings, which are strewn about the
apartment.  Joel is immediately sorry he said this.  He
follows her around.


	I'm sorry.  Okay.  I didn't mean that.  I
	just... I was just... pissed, I guess.

Clementine is out the door.  Joel follows.



Joel looks at his dented car, looks at Clementine clomping
off in the distance.



Joel drives to catch up with Clementine.  He rolls down his
window to talk to her.


	Let me drive you home.


		
	Fuck you, Joel.  Faggot.


	Look at it out here.  It's falling apart.
	I'm erasing you.  And I'm happy.

She keeps clomping.


	You did it to me.  I can't believe you
	did this to me.  By morning you'll be
	gone.  Ha!

He stops the car, gets out.



It's a street you might see in a dream, more an impression of
a quiet street than an actual one, with what little detail
there is obscured in darkness.  Joel wanders it.  In the
distance Clementine walks off, but as in an animated loop,
she doesn't get any farther away.  It's lonely.


	See, remember that girl?  The one we did
	last week?  The one with the potatoes?

Joel looks up, startled.


	Yeah, that's this guy's girlfriend.  Was.



Stan watches the screen.  Patrick paces, fidgets, looks at
the unconscious Joel.


	I gotta tell you something.  I kind of
	fell in love with her last night.


	She was unconscious, Patrick.


	She was beautiful.  So sweet and funky
	and voluptuous.  I kind of stole a pair
	of her panties, is what.


	Jesus, Patrick!



On the vague street Joel listens to Patrick and Stan.


	I know.  It's not like... I mean, they
	were clean and all.


	Look, just don't tell me this stuff.  I
	don't want to know this shit.


	Yeah, okay.


	We have work to do.

There's a click and Joel finds himself in --



Joel and Clementine sit and eat dinner in front of the TV.
It's hard to make out what they're watching.
They sit on opposite ends of the couch.  They look bored.
The scene quickly degenerates.  The room fades.


	Okay, but there's more.

Joel listens.


	After we did her, I went to where she
	worked and I asked her out.

Joel looks over at the faded Clementine across the couch.
She stares straight ahead at the TV.


	Patrick... do you know how unethical...


	That must be the guy I saw you with.


	In the bookstore that night.  The skinny
	guy.

There's a click and Joel finds himself in --



Joel watches TV.  Clementine walks by in her underwear, looks
at the TV.  She slips into a skirt.


	How can you watch this crap?


	Where are you going?


	I'm fucking crawling out of my skin.

The scene starts to fade.  Clementine puts on her shoes and
heads out the door.



Joel and Clementine walk around unhappily.  They barely look
at the animals.  Clementine watches parents with babies.


	Oh shit.  I remember this.
		
	Want to go?


		
	I want to have a baby.


	Let's talk about it later.


	No.  I want to have a baby.  I have to
	have a baby.


	I don't think we're ready.


	You're not ready.


	Clementine, do you really think you could
	take care of a kid?

She turns violently toward him, glaring.


	What?!


		
	I don't want to talk about this here.


	Joel, We're fucking gonna talk about it!

Joel looks around.  People are watching.


	You can't fucking say something like that
	and say you don't want to talk about it!


	Clem, I'm sorry.  I shouldn't have --


		
	I'd make a fucking good mother!  I love
	children!  I'm creative and smart and I'd
	make a fucking good mother!

The scene starts to fade.  Clementine's rant continues but
becomes attenuated and vague.


	Oh, thank God.  It's going.


	It's you!  It's you who can't commit to
	anything!  You have no idea how lucky you
	are I'm interested in you!  I don't even
	know why I am!  I should just end it
	right here, Joel.  Leave you in the zoo.
	Maybe you could find a nice sloth to hang
	out with!

She's crying now, but it's almost animatronic, no real
emotion in it.  The scene is a husk.


	It's going, Clementine.  All the crap and
	hurt and disappointment.  It's all being
	wiped away.

She looks up at him.


	I'm glad.

Their eyes lock.  She is fading before his eyes.


	Me, too.



It's noisy and crowded.  Joel and Clementine sit at a small
table.  She is drunk and staring off, blankly.


	So, um --


		
	Would you get me another, Joely?

Joel sighs, stands, and heads to the crowded bar.


	Thanky!  Thanky!

Joel is at the bar, trying to get the bartender's attention.

Joel is paying the bartender.  He turns with the drink to
head back to the table.  He sees Clementine flirting with a
man in Joel's seat.

Joel is at the table.  Clementine looks from her
conversation.


	Joel, this is Mark.  He likes my boobs.
	He came over special to tell me that.
	Isn't that nice.  He doesn't think I'm
	fat.

The scene starts to fade.  Mark rises.


	I didn't know she was with someone, man.


	S'okay, Mark.  Joel doesn't like my
	boobs.
		
	I don't think he likes girls.

The bar gets quiet and vague.


	You're drunk.


	You're a whiz kid.  So perceptive, so --

Clementine keeps talking but there are no more intelligible
words, just a whisper -- like a breeze.

A doorbell buzzes.  Joel looks up.



Patrick opens the door.  Mary stands there in a winter coat,
carrying a backpack.


		
	Oh, hey, Patrick.


	Hi, Mary.  How's it going?

She walks past him.


	Hey, you.

Stan and Mary kiss.  She looks down at Joel as she takes off
her coat.


	It's freezing out.


	You found us okay?


	Yeah.
		
	Poor guy.
		
	Have anything to drink?


	We haven't checked.


	Well, allow me to do the honors.  It's
	fucking freezing and I need something.

She heads into the kitchen.  Stan turns back to monitor the
slivers of light.


	Mary hates me.  I've never been popular
	with the ladies.


	Maybe if you stopped stealing their
	panties.


		
	Okay, There's more, Stan --

Stan looks over at Patrick.  Mary returns with a bottle of
scotch and two glasses.


	Hey, hey.

She pours the whiskey.


	Oh, Patrick, you didn't want any, did
	you?


	Nah, I don't know.

Mary hands a glass to Stan.  She holds hers up in a toast.


	Blessed are the forgetful, for they get
	the better even of their blunders.

Mary and Stan click glasses.


	Nietzsche.  Beyond Good and Evil.  Found
	it my Bartletts.


	That's a good one.


	Yeah, I can't wait to tell Howard!  It
	seems really appropriate.


		
	It's a good one all right.


	What's your bartlett's?


	It's a quote book.


	I love quotes.  So did Winston Churchill.
	He actually has a quotation in Bartlett's
	about Bartlett's.  Isn't that trippy?


		
	Yeah.  Cool.


	"The quotations when engraved upon the
	memory give you good thoughts."


	Very cool.  Trippy.


	I like to read what smart people say.  So
	many beautiful, important things.


	Yup.


	Don't you think Howard's like that?
	Smart?  Important?


		
	Yup.


	Definitely!


	I think he'll be in Bartlett's one day.

Stan focuses on the monitor.  Mary pours herself another
drink.


	Definitely.



It's dark.  Joel and Clementine are in bed.  The memory is
already in the midst of being erased.  Clementine is talking
in a monotonous, robotic manner.


	You don't tell me things, Joel.  I'm an
	open book.  I tell you everything.  Every
	damn embarrassing thing.  You don't trust
	me.


	No, it isn't that.


	I want to know you.


	I just don't have anything very
	interesting about my life.


	Joel, you're a liar.

The scene is faded completely now and Joel just lies there
for a moment, registering Clementine's statement.



Joel and Clementine eat dinner in silence.  Joel looks around
at other couples in the restaurant.  Some seem happy and
engaged.  Others seem bored with each other.  He turns back
to his food.


	How's the chicken?


	Is that like us?  Are we just bored with
	each other?


	Good.

He watches her as she downs her wine and pours herself
another glass.  She holds the wine bottle up to Joel.


	More?


	No.  Thanks.

There's a silence.


	How's the fish?

The scene is fading.


	It's good.

They continue to eat in silence as the scene dissolves.


	Hi, Clementine! -- Why, what's wrong? --
	Oh, I'm sorry. -- Well, I'm not sure, I
	kind of have to study for my test --



Patrick is on the phone next to Joel's bed.  Stan watches the
lights on the computer screen.


	Hold on.  Let me ask my friend.
		
	Stan, can I leave for a little while?  My
	girlfriend is very --


	Patrick, we're in the middle of --


	She's right in the neighborhood.  She's
	upset.

Mary is in the kitchen.  She pokes her head out.  She's got
some pie on a plate.


	Let him go, Stan.  I can help.


		
	Go.


		
	Mary hates me.
		
	I'll be right over, Tangerine.



Candles are lit.  Joel and Clementine are under a blanket on
the living room rug listening to music.


	Joely...


	Yeah, Tangerine?


	Do you know The Velveteen Rabbit?


	No.


	It's my favorite book.  Since I was a
	kid.  It's about these toys.  There's
	this part where the skin Horse tells the
	rabbit what it means to be real.
		
	I can't believe I'm crying already.  He
	says, "It takes a long time.  That's why
	it doesn't often happen to people who
	break easily or have sharp edges, or who
	have to be carefully kept.  Generally by
	the time you are Real, most of your hair
	has been loved off, and your eyes drop
	out and you get loose in the joints and
	very shabby.  But these things don't
	matter at all, because once you are Real
	you can't be ugly, except to people who
	don't understand."

She's weeping.  Joel is stroking her hair.  They kiss and
begin to make love under the blanket.  It's sweet and gentle
and then it starts to fade.


		
	No!  Jesus, No!

He looks down and Clementine's tear-streaked face is fading.
She continues as if she's still being made love to, even
though Joel is completely beside himself.  He jumps up naked
and yells at the ceiling.


	Please!  Please!  I've changed my mind!
		(looks down at fading
		 Clementine, then at ceiling)
	I don't want this.  Wake me up!  Stop the
	procedure!  Plea --



Joel is unconscious on the bed, completely still.  Mary and
Stan watch the monitor and smoke a joint.  After a silence:


	It's amazing, isn't it?  Such a gift
	Howard gave the world.


		
	Yeah.


	To let people begin again.  It's
	beautiful.  You look at a baby and it's
	so fresh, so clean, so free.  And
	adults... they're like this messy tangle
	of anger and phobias and sadness...
	hopelessness.  And Howard just makes it
	go away.


	You love him, don't you?

Mary seems surprised, taken aback, caught.  She is silent for
a long moment.


	No.
		
	Besides, Howard's married, Stan.  He's a
	very serious and ethical man.  I'm not
	going to tempt him to betray all he
	believes in.

Stan takes another drag on the joint, passes it to Mary.



Patrick, bundled up and carrying a full backpack, trudges
through the snow.



Clementine watches out the window as Patrick nears.  She's
crying.  He makes his way up her front stairs.  She swings
open the door and hugs him.


	Oh, baby, what's going on?


	I don't know.  I'm lost.  I'm scared.  I
	feel like I'm disappearing.  I'm getting
	old and nothing makes any sense to me.


	Oh, Tangerine.


	Nothing makes any sense.  Nothing makes
	any sense.

She pushes herself out of the embrace and looks at Patrick.


	Come up to Boston with me?


	Sure.  We'll go next weekend and --


	Now.  Now!  I have to go now.  I have to
	see the frozen Charles!  Now!  Tonight!


	Um, okay.  I'll call my study partner.


	Yay!  It'll be great!  I'll get my shit.

She runs into the bedroom.  Patrick is at the phone and
realizes he doesn't know Joel's number.  After a moment's
thought, he *69's.  The phone rings.


	Hi, it's Joel.  Please leave a message
	after the beep.

Beep.


		
	Stan, it's Patrick.  Pick up.


	Hey, where are you?


	I got into a situation with the old lady.
	Can you handle things tonight alone?  I'm
	really sorry, man.



Stan is on the phone.  He's really stoned and watches Mary,
stoned herself, dancing in a sexy trance to something soft
and low on the stereo.


	I can handle it.  He's pretty much on
	auto-pilot anyway.




	Thanks, Stan.  I owe you.

Patrick hangs up, rifles quickly through his backpack.  He
pulls out a silver bracelet, puts it in his pocket, then
pulls out a journal, flips through it, keeping an eye on the
bedroom door.  The handwriting is a woman's.  He finds what
he's looking for.  He reads:


	I took Joel to walk on Charles River with
	me last night.  It was so beautiful and
	charming.  Joel was nervous about
	stepping onto the ice, but he wanted to
	please me so much -- he's so sweet --
	that he came out after me.    We lay down
	right in the center and watched the
	stars.  He took my hand and said "I
	could...



Joel and Clementine lie together holding hands on the frozen
river.  They look up at the stars.


	...die right now, Clem.  I'm just...
	happy.  I've never felt that before.  I'm
	just exactly where I want to be.

Clementine looks over at him.  Her eyes are filled with love
and tears.  Then they get vague.  The scene is being erased.
Joel is panicked.


	Clem, no!  This can't keep happening.
	Please!  Oh, fuck!  Please!

Crazily, Joel runs off, passing through a series of decayed
scenes: He and Clementine arguing in a car, having sex on the
beach, laughing and holding hands at a movie, eating grilled
cheese and tomato soup together in bed, Joel watching her
sleep, them drinking at a bar.  He arrives at a decayed
version of his first meeting with Mierzwiak.


	We can help you through this.  Why don't
	you start now by telling me everything
	you can remember about --


	You have to stop this!


	What?  What do you mean?


	I'm trapped in my head and everything I
	love is being erased!  Stop it now!


	Yes, but... I'm just something you're
	imagining.  What can I do?  I'm in your
	head, too.



Patrick reads the journal.


	... and we made love right on the ice.
	It was absolutely freezing on my ass!  It
	was wonderful.

Clementine enters, dressed for the cold.  Patrick puts the
notebook away.


	I'm so excited.  Yay!


	I'm excited, too.  Oh, and I wanted to
	give you this.  It's a little... thing.

Patrick pulls the bracelet from his pocket, hands it to her.


	I didn't have a chance to wrap it.


	It's gorgeous.
		
	Just my taste.  I've never  gone out with
	a guy who brought me a piece of jewelry I
	liked.
		
	Thanks.  So let's get going.  Long drive.



Stan and Mary have sex on the floor next to Joel's bed.



Joel and Clementine are hiking, Clementine in front.


	Such a beautiful view.


		
	Yes indeed.
		
	Fuck!  They're erasing you, Clem!


	Oh?


	I hired them to.  We're in my brain.  But
	I want it to stop, before I wake up and
	don't know you anymore.


	Wow.  Um, well... can't you just force
	yourself awake?


	I don't know.

He concentrates.  Nothing happens.


	Aaargh!  It's horrible!  I'm trapped!

He starts to have a fit, banging against trees, stomping his
feet, screaming.  But even while he's doing this the memory
and Clementine are fading around him.



It's raining out.  Joel is reading, slouched in a chair.  He
looks over at Clementine, stretched out on her belly in her
underwear.  She's reading, too.


	She's so sexy.


	I loved you on this day.  I love this
	memory.  The rain.  Us just hanging.

Clementine looks over at him, smiles.  Her brow furrows in
thought.


	What if you hide me?


	What do you mean?


		
	Well... if they're looking for me in
	memories I'm in, what if you take me to a
	memory I'm not in?
		
	And we can hide there till morning.

Joel ponders this.  The scene and Clementine are beginning to
dissolve.  Joel grabs Clementine's hand.  She giggles with
glee.  He pulls her out of the scene as it degrades.


	Where?  Where?  Where?

He drags her through the landscape of already decayed
memories and turns off into:



The kitchen is dated and vague.  Joel and Clementine are in
an oversized playpen; they're adults but small.  Joel wears
footsie pajamas with some vague little animals on them.  He
holds a a red furry huckleberry hound doll.  Clementine is
still in her panties and bra.  An oversized woman in high
heels, seen from a low angle, hurries back and forth
preparing dinner.


	Jesus.  What's this?

Joel looks around at the kitchen, at his doll, at the woman.


	I must be about two.
		
	I want my mommy.  She's busy.  She's not
	looking at me.
		
	Look, my Huckleberry Hound doll!  I told
	you about this!
		
	I want my mommy!

He starts to cry.  Clementine tries to comfort him.  She hugs
him.


		
	I want my mommy.
		
	I don't want to lose you, Clem.


	I'm right here.


	I'm scared.  I want my mommy.  I don't
	want to lose you.  I don't want to
	lose...


	Joel, Joely, look... it's not fading.
	The memory.  I think we're hidden.

Joel sucks in some snot.  His mother scurries back and forth
clanging pots.  The room is not decaying.  Joel smiles.



Stan and Mary lie on the floor, their stoned minds wandering
after sex.  Stan suddenly perks up.  He looks at the monitor.


	It's stopped.


	What?


	Listen, it's not erasing.

He makes his way, naked, to the computer screen.


	It's not erasing.  He's off the screen.


	Where?


	I don't know.  He's not on the map.

Stan tries to break through his marijuana haze.  He fiddles
nervously with the equipment.


	I don't know what to do!  I don't know
	what to do!  Crap.  Crap...


	Well, what should we do?


	I don't know!  I just said that!


	Sor-ry
		
	We have to do something.  He can't wake
	up half done.


	Shit!

He jerks the joystick spastically.  Mary, also naked, gets up
and looks over his shoulder at the screen.


		
	We should call Howard.

Stan turns and looks at her.  He's stoned and trying to
understand her motivation.


	No way.  I can handle this.


	This guy's only half cooked.  There's no
	time to fuck around, Stan.

Stan tries to think.  He paces.  Mary watches him.  Finally:


		
	Okay.

He dials the phone, waits.


	Hello, Howard?



The room is dark.  A groggy Mierzwiak is in bed on the phone.
His wife lies beside him, eyes open, listening.


	Stan?  What's going on?


	The guy we're doing?  He's disappeared
	from the map.  I can't find him anywhere.


	Okay, what happened right before he
	disappeared?


	I was away from the monitor for a second.
	I had it on automatic.  I had to go pee.


	Well, where was Patrick?


	He went home sick.


	Jesus.  All right, what's the address.


	1062 Sherman Drive.  Apartment 1E,
	Rockville Center.

Mierzwiak writes it down on a bedside not pad.  He hangs up.



Stan hangs up the phone, looks at Mary.


	He's coming?


	You better go.


	Hell no.

She starts getting dressed.


	Shit, I'm so stoned.  I don't want him to
	see me stoned.  Stop being stoned, Mary!

She hurries into the bathroom with her bag.


	God, I look like shit!  God!

Mary slams the bathroom door.  Stan puts his head in his
hands.



Joel and Clementine are in the playpen.  Joel's oversized
mother reaches down as she hurries by and pats Joel on the
head.


	How's my baby boy?

She's gone.


	I really want her to pick me up.  It's
	weird how strong that desire is.

Clementine holds his hand.  He looks over at her.


	You know, we're okay.  They're not
	finding us.  You'll remember me in the
	morning.  And you'll come to me and tell
	me about us and we'll start over.


	I loved you so much this day.  On my bed
	in your panties.  I remember I thought,
	how impossibly lucky am I to have you on
	my bed in your panties.

She kisses him.


	You remember what happened next?


	I came over to the bed and you smelled so
	good, like you just woke up, slightly
	sweaty.  And I climbed on the bed with
	you and you said something like --


	-- another rainy day.  Whatever shall we
	do?

He laughs.  She unbuttons his pajamas.  They begin to make
love.  Joel's mother hurries around the kitchen.  Joel stops,
looks at Clementine.


	There's this guy!


	What?


	There's this guy.  I heard him talking in
	my apartment.  He's one of the eraser
	guys.  And he fell for you when they were
	erasing you, so he introduced himself the
	next day as if he were a stranger and now
	you're dating him.


	Really?  Is he cute?


	He stole a pair of your panties while you
	were being erased!


	Gross! You must remember to tell me this
	in the morning.  I'm, like, so freaked
	out now.



It's a rust bucket.  Clementine drives through the snow.
She's crying and holding Patrick's hand.


	What's wrong with me?


	Nothing is wrong with you.  You're the
	most wonderful person I've ever met.

She glances gratefully over at him then starts to cry even
harder.



Stan works on trying to get the signal back.  His hair is
combed and he's dressed neatly, looking professional but
still stoned.  Mary is pacing nervously to and from the
window, looking out into the night.  She's dressed also, and
she's wearing more make-up now.  Her hair is pulled up into
some sort of style.  Suddenly she freezes at the window.


	There he is.  Oh my God.  Oh my God.  Do
	I look okay?

She doesn't say anything.


	I'm still stoned.  Are you?  Crap.

She looks in the mirror.


		
	Your Visine didn't do shit, fella.

The doorbell buzzes.  Mary lunges for the door, then calms
herself before opening it.  Mierzwiak, holding an equipment
bag, looks surprised.


	Mary.  What are you doing here?


	She came to help, Howard.


	I wanted to learn as much about the
	procedure as possible, Howard.  I think
	it's important for my job...to help
	comfort the clientele.  You know.

Mierzwiak looks from Mary to Stan, nods, and enters.  Mary
closes the door.  Mierzwiak crosses to the equipment.


	Let's get to the bottom of this.  Shall
	we?

He sits down in front of the computer and does some fiddling.


	Odd.

He fiddles some more.  Mary looks on, fascinated.


	I tried that already.


	Did you try going through C-Gate?


	Yeah.  Of course.

Mierzwiak ponders.  He unzips his equipment bag, pulls out
another laptop computer and plugs it in to the system.


	I'm going to do a Spectrum search
	throughout his memory, see if anything
	comes up.

Mierzwiak presses some more buttons.  The program starts up.
A much more complex and detailed human brain appears on this
screen.  It rotates.  Eventually Mierzwiak sees a small
distant light in the brain.  He zeroes in on it.


	Okay, here it is.  I don't know why it's
	off the map like that, but --



Joel is being bathed in the oversized sink by his oversized
mother.  Clementine sits in the water with him, laughing.
The mother doesn't seem to see her.


	Little baby getting awwwl cleean.  Awl
	clean.


		
	I love getting bathed in the sink.  It's
	such a feeling of security.


		
	I've never seen you happier.

The elements of the scene flash explosively away:  Joel's
mother, his Huckleberry Hound doll, the details of the
kitchen, Clementine.   Joel is thrown into:



He sits with Clementine in the parked car, outside a drive-in
movie theater.  The movie on the giant screen is partially
obscured by a fence.  Joel and Clementine drink wine.



Mierzwiak looks up from the computer screen.


	Okay, we're back in.


	That was beautiful to watch, Howard.
	Like a surgeon or a concert pianist.


	Well, thank you, Mary.


		
	You get some sleep, Howard.  I'll take it
	from here.


	Yeah, probably a good idea.



Clementine and Joel laugh as they try to give voice to what
the characters on the screen are saying.


	But can't you see... I love you, Antoine.


	Don't call me Antoine.  My name is Wally.


	Yes, but I can't love a man named Wally.

She starts to fade.  The scene starts to fade.  Joel
remembers their previous plan.


	They found us before.  The plan didn't
	work.  I don't know what to do now.


		
	Hide me somewhere deeper?  Somewhere
	buried?

Joel grabs her.  They run off just as the scene decays into a
husk behind them.



Stan is back at the controls.  Mierzwiak's at the door with
Mary.


	Howard, they've disappeared again.


	Oh dear.


	I'm so sorry, Howard, you must be tired.

He nods, distractedly.  She smiles to herself as he heads
back to the equipment.



Joel, now the size of a junior high school kid and dressed
accordingly, is peering around the corner of the school
building toward the bike rack.  Clementine is with him,
dressed as she was in the parked car.


	Look at you, cutey!  What are we doing?


	This kid, Joe Early, is going to beat the
	shit out of me.


	I'm terrified.  I thought if I hung
	around the art room long enough, he'd go
	home and I could get my bike.

They head toward the bike rack.  Joel's is the only bike
remaining.


	Poor Joel.

They're at the bike rack and a bunch of kids, including
giant, fat Joe Early come around the corner.


	Hi, Jill.


	He calls me Jill.  Everyone calls me Jill
	after this.

The other kids laughs.


	Just shut up, Joe.  I'm going home.


	I don't think so.  We're fighting.


	I don't want to fight you.

The kids start chanting, "fight, fight, fight..."  Joe Early
throws a wild punch that hits Joel in the side.  joel falls
and stays down, covering himself.


	C'mon, Jill.  Get up, faggot.  C'mon.

Joel doesn't say anything.  He peeks humiliated at
Clementine.  She's watching him.  She's got a tear in her
eye.  She kneels down beside him, puts her arm around him.


	I'm too scared to even throw a punch.
	When I tell people this story I leave
	that part out.

The scene flashes violently to white and is gone.



Mierzwiak is at the machine.


	We got him back.  Stan, I think I'm just
	going to have to get through this
	manually.  We're running late.



It's cold.  Joel and Clementine walk, all bundled up.  She
points at a house up the beach.


	Our house!  Our house!

She runs ahead, laughing.  The scene is decaying.  Joel
chases after her.


	Clem, c'mon, we've got to hide you.
	Remember?

He grabs her arm and yanks and they are in:



It's dark.  Joel, junior high school size, is in bed
masturbating.  Clementine is in there, too, in her winter
coat, still laughing from before.  She realizes what's going
on.


		
	Joel!


		
	I don't like it either, but I'm just
	trying to find horrible secret place to --

Joel's mother pops her head in the door.


	Joel, I was just --
		
	Oh.  Um... I'll ask you in the morning,
	honey.  Have a good night.

The mother backs out, closes the door.  Joel cringes.
Clementine laughs, still in the mode of the memory she was
swiped from.  Flash!  It's all gone.



Joel and Clementine are laughing as she blows out the candle
on a slice of cheesecake in front of her.  Joel hands her a
small wrapped box.


	Happy Birthday.


		
	Thanks, Joely.  A present!  Oh boy!

She pulls out the bracelet.  It's the same bracelet Patrick
gave her.


	Oh, Joel.  It's beautiful!
		
	I mean, you're the first guy who ever
	bought me a piece of jewelry I could
	honestly say that about.

He notices she's starting to fade.


	I scoured the city for it.


	I love it!

She leans across the table to kiss him.  He grabs her and
runs through the decaying scene and into the vague night.



Joel is one of a group of five year olds.  He holds a hammer
and is poised to hit a dead bird in a red wagon.  The other
boys are goading him.


	C'mon, Joel, you have to.  Do it already.

Joel doesn't want to.  Clementine watches.


	I can't.  I have to go home.  I'll do it
	later.


	I didn't want to do this.  But I had to
	or they would've called me a girl.

Joel miserably smashes the bird repeatedly with the hammer.
Red jelly guts cover the hammer and the wagon bottom.  The
kids hoot.


	I can't believe I did that.  I'm so
	ashamed.

A live bird watches from a tree.  Clementine, still dressed
for her birthday dinner , pulls
Joel away from the other boys.  The two of them walk down
Joel's suburban street.


	It's okay.  You were a little kid.
		
	This is a great birthday present.
	Getting to see you as a boy.

She kisses him and they walk holding hands.


		
	That's where I live.  Lived.

Joel looks down at her hand.  It's fading.  The bracelet is
gone.  Clementine is gone.  His childhood house is gone.



Mierzwiak works the equipment.  He has located a small area
of light in the brain imaging and eradicates them.


	I'm getting the hang of it.  I still
	understand it.  But I'm finding him
	quickly enough.  I'm hopeful there won't
	be too much peripheral eradication.

Mary sits on the bed.


		
	I like watching you work.

Stan sighs, grabs his coat.


	I'll go out for a smoke.  If no one
	minds.


		
	That's fine, Stan.

Mary doesn't say anything.  Stan huffs and is out the door.
Mierzwiak continues to find and erase points of light.  Mary
gets up her courage to speak.


	Do you like quotes, Howard?


	How do you mean?


	Oh, um, like famous quotes.  I find
	reading them inspirational to me.  And in
	my reading I've come across some I
	thought you might like, too.


	Oh.  Well, I'd love to hear some.

Mary is thrilled, beside herself.  She tries to calm down.


	Okay, um, there's one that goes "Blessed
	are the forgetful, for they get the
	better even of their blunders."


	Is that Nietzsche?


	Yeah, yeah it is, Howard.  And here I was
	thinking I could tell you something you
	didn't know.


	It's a good quote, Mary.  I'm glad we
	both know it.

He smiles at her.  She's flustered, flattered.


		
	There's another one I like, I read.  It's
	by Pope Alexander.


	Alexander Pope?


	Yes, shit.  Oops, sorry!
		
	Sorry.  It's just I told myself I wasn't
	going to say Pope Alexander and sound
	like a dope and then I go ahead and do
	it.  Like I psyched myself out.


	It's no big deal.


	You are such a sweetheart.

There's an embarrassed moment as that line hangs in the air.
Then Mary plunges ahead to bury it.


	Anyway, the quote goes "How happy is the
	blameless Vestal's lot!  The world
	forgetting, by the world forgot: Eternal
	sunshine of the spotless mind!  Each
	prayer accepted, and each wish resign'd".

She smiles, proud and embarrassed.


	That's lovely.


	Really?  I thought it was appropriate
	maybe.  That's all.
		
	I really admire the work that you do.  I
	know it's not proper to be so familiar
	but I guess since we're outside the
	workplace I feel a certain liberty to --


	It's fine, Mary.  I'm happy to hear it.


	Okay.  Good.  Great.  Thanks.
		
	I like you, Howard... an awful lot.  Is
	that terrible?

Mierzwiak seems momentarily taken aback, then returns to his
unflappable self.


	You're a wonderful girl, Mary.

She leans over and kisses him, then pulls away quickly.


	I've loved you for a very long time.  I'm
	sorry!  I shouldn't have said that.


	I've got a wife, Mary.  Kids.  You know
	that.


		
	I wish I was your wife.  I wish I had
	your kids.

Mierzwiak comforts her with a hug.  It turns into kiss.  He
pulls away.


	We can't do this.


	No you're right.  Once again.  You're a
	decent man, Howard.

He smiles sadly at her.  She smiles courageously at him.


	I want you to know it's not because I'm
	not interested.  If that means anything.

They look at each other a long while, then Howard goes back
to locating and eradicating blips of lights.



Stan sits in the van and smokes a cigarette.  He has an
unobstructed view into Joel's bedroom window.  He watches
Mierzwiak and Mary.  They're talking as Howard works.  It
appears to be a very serious discussion.  A car pulls up
outside.  Stan turns to see.  A middle-aged woman gets out,
checks the address on Joel's building, approaches the only
lit window, watches Mierzwiak and Mary inside.  Mierzwiak's
resolve has apparently weakened and he and Mary kiss again.
This time it leads to groping, partial undressing, and
falling onto the bed alongside the unconscious Joel.  The
woman in the window is transfixed.  As Mierzwiak fumbles to
unzip his pants, he catches sight of the woman in the window.
He practically shrieks and jumps up.



Joel and Clementine walking, hand-in-hand, look up
simultaneously.



Mary looks confusedly at Howard.


	What?

She follows his eyes and sees the woman in the window, who
turns and walks off in a huff.


	Oh my God!

Mierzwiak is already in his coat.  He's out the door.



The woman is at her car.  Stan watches from the van.
Mierzwiak is hurrying to the woman.


	Hollis!  Hollis!


	I knew it, Howard.  I don't even know why
	I bothered to copy the damn address.


	It didn't start out to be this.  I came
	here to work.  It's a one-time mistake.

Mary is right behind Mierzwiak now.  Hollis is in her car.


		
	Mrs. Mierzwiak, it's true.  And it's not
	Mr. Mierzwiak's fault.  I'm a stupid
	little girl with a stupid little crush.
	I basically forced him into it.  I swear.

Hollis turns, looks at Mary and then at Mierzwiak.


	Don't be a monster, Howard.  Tell the
	girl.

Stan is out of the van now, listening.  Mary shivers in the
cold, hugs herself.  There's a long silence.  Then:


	Tell me what?

Hollis and Mierzwiak have locked eyes.  Mary looks back and
forth between them.  Hollis starts her car.


	Poor kid.  You can have him.  You did.

She drives off.  Mary watches Howard with increased
foreboding.


	What, Howard?


	We... have a history.  I'm sorry.  You
	wanted the procedure.  You wanted it
	done... to get past.  I have to finish in
	there.  It's almost morning.  We'll talk
	later.

He shuffles inside.  Mary stands there, unable to digest
this, struggling in vain to remember.  Stan watches.


	Let me take you home.

Mary shakes her head "no."  She walks off, dazed.



Clementine and Patrick lie on their backs on the frozen river
and look up at the night sky.


	I could die right now, Clem.  I'm just
	happy.  I've never felt that before.  I'm
	just exactly where I want to be.

Clementine looks over at him.  Their eyes meet.  She sobs.


	I want to go home.

She hurries toward the shore, slips on the ice, gets up, and
continues, now running.



Mary, in shock, sits in the empty fluorescent car.  She tries
to look out the window but can only see her own reflection.



It's deathly silent as Mierzwiak and Stan work on completing
the job.  Mierzwiak locates a light hidden very deep in the
map of Joel's brain.  He targets it.



Joel, the size of a ten year old, sits fishing with his
oversized father.  Clementine is naked and in the boat, too.
She's reading The Play by Stephen Dixon.


	I love this book, Joel.  Thank you so
	much for telling me about it.

Joel is his father.  The father is drunk and sullen.  He
faces away from Joel, looks out at the lake.


	Don't be like me, son.  Don't waste your
	life.  You'll come to a point someday
	where it'll be too late.  You'll be sewn
	into your fate...


	It was horrifying, seeing my father like
	that.
	There was no hope for me if his life was
	such a failure.  And he saw failure in
	me, too, written in my future.

Clementine watches the frightened, confused Joel.


	Joel, you're not sewn in.  He's wrong.


	...and there'll be nowhere to go except
	where you're headed, like a train on a
	track.  Inevitable, unalterable.

The scene poops out of existence with a flash of light.



Joel finds himself eating Chinese food and sitting across
from Clementine.  He is ragged and jarred.


	I'm done, Clem.  I'm just going to ride
	it out.  Hiding is clearly not working.


	Yeah.


	I want to enjoy my little time left with
	you.


	This is our first "date" date.


	Do you remember what we talked about?


	Naomi, I guess.


	Yeah.


	What was I wearing?


	God, I should know.  Your hair was red.
	I remember it matched the wallpaper.


	Egad, were you horrified?


	No!  I think you were wearing that black
	dress, y'know, with the buttons.

She is wearing the black dress.


	No, you were with me when I bought that.
	At that place on East 6th.  It was later.



The scene has already been erased.  It's just a decayed husk.
A vague Joel watches a vague Clementine model a black dress.



Clementine wears a generic black dress now.


	Right.  Something black though.


	I'll buy that.  Black's always good.


	We did talk about Naomi.


	I said: Are you sure?  You seem unsure.


	I'm sure, I said.


	But you weren't.  I could tell.


	I was so nervous.  I remember I couldn't
	think of anything to say.  There were
	long silences.

There is a long silence.


	I thought I was foolish.  I thought I'd
	mistaken infatuation for love.  You said:


	So what.  Infatuation is good, too.


	And I didn't have an argument.



Joel and Clementine pull up to Clementine's house.


	I dropped you off after.  You said --


		
	Come up and see me... now.


	It's very late.


	Yes, exactly.  Exactly my point.



Joel and Clementine are in the midst of awkward shy sex.


	This was our first time.

The scene starts to fade.  Joel watches Clementine disappear.



Mary enters the dark room, frazzled.  She flips on the
fluorescent lights and searches the file folders, finds one
with her name on it.  Her jaw drops.  With a shaky hand, she
puts the tape into the player on her desk and presses "play."


	Okay, so just tell me what you remember.
	And we'll take it from there.


		
	Um, I liked you immediately.  At the job
	interview.  You seemed so... important
	and mature.  And I loved that you were
	helping all these people.  You didn't
	come on to me at all.  I liked that.  I
	was tongue-tied around you at first.  I
	wanted you to think I was smart.  You
	were so nice.  I loved the way you
	smelled.  I couldn't wait to come to
	work.  I had these fantasies of us being
	married and having kids and just...
		
	...and so... then... when...
	that one day, when I thought you looked
	at me back... like... Oh, Howie, I can't
	do this?  How can I do this?


	It's what's best, Mary.  You know that.

Mary slumps to the floor.  We move into her eyes.


	Yeah, I know.  Oh, God.  Okay, well, I
	was so excited...



A flirtatious look from Mierzwiak.


	...Remember you bought me that little
	wind-up frog?

A vague shot of a wind-up frog.


	And you said...

A vague shot of Mierzwiak mouthing to Mary's voice.


	"This is for your desk.  Just a little
	token"

Back to Mary sitting on the floor, listening to the tape.


	I knew then... I knew something was going
	to happen... something wonderful.



Joel sits in the quiet living room.  The scene is fading.


	Naomi.


	On the couch.  Dark.  Quiet.  I wondered
	if I had made a terrible mistake.  I
	almost reached for the phone about a
	thousand times.  I thought I could take
	it back, erase it, explain I had
	momentarily lost my mind. Then I told
	myself we weren't happy.  That was the
	truth.  That what we were was safe.
	It was unfair to you and to me to stay in
	a relationship for that reason.  I
	thought about Clementine and the spark
	when I was with her, but then I thought
	what you and I had was real and adult and
	therefore significant even if it wasn't
	much fun.   But I wanted fun.  I saw
	other people having fun and I wanted it.
	Then I thought fun is a lie, that no one
	is really having fun; I'm being suckered
	by advertising and movie bullshit... then
	I thought maybe not, maybe not.  And then
	I thought, as I always do at this point
	in my argument, about dying.



An elderly man sits.


	I projected myself to the end of my life
	in some vague rendition of my old man
	self.  I imagined looking back with a
	tremendous hole of regret in my heart.



Joel sits.


	I didn't pick up the phone to call you,
	Naomi.  I didn't pick up the phone.

The scene dissolves.



Namoi is red-eyed from crying.  She is packing things in
boxes.  Joel paces, steals glances at her, doesn't know what
to say.  She holds up a book.  The scene starts to fade.


	Yours?


	You take it.  I don't know.

She tosses it in a box.


	Naomi, I really value our relationship.
	I hope it's possible for us to stay in
	touch.


	Don't do this to me now, Joel.  Really.



Joel watches out the window as Naomi stuffs a final box in
the trunk of a car.  There's another woman down there with
her.  They get into the car and drive off.



Joel talks to Clementine.  The scene is fogging over.


	I told her today I need to end it.


	Is that what you want?


	I did it.  I guess that means something.

Clementine shrugs.  The scene fades.



Joel walks with Naomi.


	So what's going on, Joel?


	I don't know, I've just been thinking,
	maybe we're not happy with each other.


	What?


	Y'know, we've been, I don't know, sort
	of, unhappy with each other and --


	Don't say "we" when you mean "you."


	I think maybe, we're both so used to
	operating at this level that -- How can
	one person be unhappy?  If one person is
	unhappy, both have to be... by
	definition.


	Bullshit.  Who is it?  You met someone.


	No.  I just need some space, maybe.


	The thing is, Joel, whatever it is you
	think you have with this chick, once the
	thrill wears off, you're just going to be
	Joel with the same fucking problems.


	It's not somebody else.


	I hate myself.

Naomi walks off.  Joel watches her.  The scene fades.



Joel enters, looks around.  There's no sign of Clementine.
Joel approaches a male employee.


	Is there a Clementine who works here?


		(calling to another male
		 employee)
	Mark, is Clem on tonight?


	On my dick, bro.
		
	Oh, hey.  Yeah, I think she's upstairs in
	Philosophy.

Joel climbs stairs, searches the aisle, spots Clementine.


	Hi.

She turns.


	I didn't think you'd show your face
	around me again.  I figured you were
	humiliated.  You did run away, after all.


	Sorry to track you down like this.  I'm
	not a stalker.  But I needed to see you.


		
	Yeah?


	I'd like to... take you out or something.


	Well, you're married.


	Not yet.  Not married.


	Look, man, I'm telling you right off the
	bat, I'm high maintenance.  So I'm not
	going to tiptoe around your marriage or
	whatever it is you got going there.  If
	you want to be with me, you're with me.


	Okay.


	So make your domestic decisions and maybe
	we'll talk again.

She goes back to stacking.  Joel stands there helplessly.


	I just think that you have some kind
	of... quality that seems really important
	to me.

The scene is disintegrating.  Clementine's speech is
delivered without passion.


	Joel, I'm not a concept.  I want you to
	just keep that in your head.  Too many
	guys think I'm a concept or I complete
	them or I'm going to make them alive, but
	I'm just a fucked-up girl who is looking
	for my own peace of mind.  Don't assign
	me yours.


	I remember that speech really well.


		
	I had you pegged, didn't I?


	You had the whole human race pegged.


	Probably.


	I still thought you were going to save
	me.  Even after that.


	I know.


	It would be different, if we could just
	give it another go around.


	Remember me.  Try your best.  Maybe we
	can.

The scene is gone.



Joel sits forlornly in the back seat.  Rob drives and Carrie
sits in the front passenger seat.  The car stops in front of
Joel's apartment building.


	Thanks, guys.


	I hope you feel better, sweetie.


	Yeah.


	Say hi to Naomi.

The car door closes.



Joel climbs the stairs.


	I hope she's not up.  I need to think.



The lights are off.  Joel sits on a chair near the window,
writing in his journal.  The streetlight illuminates the
paper.  Naomi sleeps in the bed.


	I met someone tonight at a party on the
	beach.  Her name is Clementine.  There is
	something alive about her.

Naomi turns over in bed, sees Joel.


		
	Hi.


	Hi.


	How was it?


	You didn't miss much.  Rob Carrie say
	hello.


	Hi, Rob and Carrie.


	Go back to sleep.

The room is starting to decompose.


	Yeah.  Come to bed.  I'm cold.


	In a minute.

Naomi turns over.  Joel goes back to his writing.


		
	I don't know what to do about this.  I've
	been feeling so alienated and numb
	lately.  Forever.  The thought of not
	acknowledging my feelings again seems
	self-destructive.
	How can I continue on this path toward a
	living death, a life filled with
	obligation and guilt and responsibility
	but joyless, hopeless?  I need to speak
	with Clementine.

The scene has turned to a husk.



Joel is at his closet, putting on a sweater.  Naomi is at the
dining room table, papers spread out before her, writing.
Joel turns and watches her for a moment.


	So you don't mind?


	I've got to finish this chapter anyway.

The scene is fading.


	Okay.  I wish you could come.


	This is it.  The night we met.  My God,
	it's over.


	Me, too.

He approaches Naomi, kisses her on the top of the head.  She
continues to write.


	Say hi to Rob and Carrie.  Have some fun!


	I hope you get your work done.


		
	Yeah.



Rob drives.  Carrie fiddles with the radio dial in the front
passenger seat.  Joel sits in the back.


	I'm sorry Naomi couldn't make it.  You
	okay?  You seem quiet.


	Just a little overworked, maybe.


	The trip to the party where I met
	Clementine.  My first memory of her is
	now my last memory of her.

Joel looks out the window.  Carrie turns around and says
something to Joel.  She is backlit, her hair a halo of frizz.


	I remember you turned around.  Your face
	was dark and your hair was backlit -- I
	could see a halo of frizz -- you asked me
	if things were okay between Naomi and me.


	I did.  You said, things were fine.


	I remember.


	This is the night you met Clementine,
	Joel.  I remember watching you walk down
	the beach with her and I thought, oh
	shit.


	Yeah, you told me that later.


	I told you that later.

Joel looks out he window.  He sees the husk of a memory on
the darkened roadside.  It's Joel and Carrie in:



Faded.  Carrie and Joel sit at the table with coffee.


	Who was the girl you walked off with?


	No one.



Rob, Carrie, and Joel emerge from the car, parked amidst a
small cluster of cars in an otherwise empty parking lot.



Joel watches his shoes in the sand as he trudges along.


	Is this the right way?



Joel, Rob, and Carrie step out of the brush and see a bonfire
down the beach.  People and music can be heard.



Joel sits on a log, a paper plate of chicken and corn on his
lap.  People warm themselves at the fire.  Joel watches
couples talking, kissing, Rob sharing a joint with a guy.


	You were down by the surf.  I could just
	make you out in the dark.

Joel looks down to the water.  There's Clementine, in her
orange hooded sweatshirt, looking out to sea.


	Your back to me.  In that orange
	sweatshirt I would come to know so well
	and even hate eventually.  At the time I
	thought, how cool, an orange sweatshirt.


	I remember being drawn to you even then.
	I thought, I love this woman because
	she's alone down there looking out at the
	black ocean.


	But I went back to my food.  The next
	thing I remember, I felt someone sitting
	next to me and I saw the orange sleeve
	out of the corner of my eye.

A shot of the orange sleeve.  Joel looks up.


	Hi there.


	Hi.


	I was so nervous.  What were you doing
	there, I wondered.  Your hair was lime
	green.  Green revolution.

A shot of her green hair.


	You said...


	I saw you sitting over here.  By
	yourself.  I thought, thank God, someone
	normal, who doesn't know how interact at
	these things either.


	Yeah.  I don't ever know what to say.


	I can't tell you how happy I am to hear
	that.  I mean, I don't mean I'm happy
	you're uncomfortable, but, yknow... I'm
	such a loser.  Every time I come to a
	party I tell myself I'm going to be
	different and it's always exactly the
	same and then I hate myself after for
	being such a clod.


	Even then I didn't believe you entirely.
	I thought how could you be talking to me
	if you couldn't talk to people?


	But I thought, I don't know, I thought it
	was cool that you were sensitive enough
	to know what I was feeling and that you
	were attracted to it.


	But, I don't know, maybe we're the normal
	ones, y'know?  I mean, what kind of
	people do well at this stuff?


	And I just liked you so much.


	You did?  You liked me?


	You know what I did.


	Yeah, I know.  I'm fishing.


	You said --

She picks a drumstick off of Joel's plate.


	I'm Clementine.  Can I borrow a piece of
	your chicken?


	And you picked it out of my plate before
	I could answer and it felt so intimate
	like we were already lovers.


	I remember --


	The grease on your chin in the bonfire
	light.

Shot of a smudge of chicken grease on Clementine's chin.


	Oh God, how horrid.


	I'm Joel.


	No, it was lovely.


	Hi, Joel.  So no jokes about my name?


	You mean, like...
		
	Oh, my darlin', oh, my darlin', oh, my
	darlin', Clementine... ?  Huckleberry
	Hound?  That sort of thing?


	Yeah, like that.


	Nope.  No jokes.  My favorite thing when
	I was a kid was my Huckleberry Hound
	doll.  I think your name is magic.

She smiles.


		
	This is it, Joel.  It's gonna be gone
	soon.


	I know.


	What do we do?


	Enjoy it.  Say good-bye.

She nods.

Joel and Clementine are walking near the surf.


	So you're still on the Zoloft?


	Next thing I remember we were walking
	down near the surf.


	No, I stopped.  I didn't want to feel
	like I was being artificially modulated.


	I know what you mean.  That's why I
	stopped.


	But my sleeping is really fucked up.


	I don't think I've slept in a year.


	You should try Xanax.  I mean, it's a
	chemical and all, but it works... and it
	works just having it around, knowing that
	it's there.  Like insurance.


	yeah?


	I'll give you a couple.  See what you
	think.


	Okay.


	Have you ever read any Anna Akhmatova?


	I love her.


	Really?  Me, too!  I don't meet people
	who even know who she is and I work in a
	book store.


	I think she's great.


	Me too.  There's this poem --


	Did this conversation come before or
	after we saw the house?


	I think, before.


	Seems too coincidental that way.


	Yeah, maybe.

Joel and Clementine wander near some beach houses closed for
the winter.


	Do you know her poem that starts "Seaside
	gusts of wind,/And a house in which we
	don't live...


	Yeah, yeah.  It goes "Perhaps there is
	someone in this world to whom I could
	send all these lines"?


	Yes!  I love that poem.  It breaks my
	heart.  I'm so excited you know it.
		
	Look, houses in which we don't live.

Joel chuckles appreciatively.


	I wish we did.  You married?


	Um, no.


	Let's move into this neighborhood.

Clementine tries one of the doors on a darkened house.  Joel
is nervous.


	I do sort of live with somebody though.


	Oh.

She walks to the next house, tries the door.


	Male or female?


	Female.


	At least I haven't been barking up the
	wrong tree.

She finds a window that's unlatched.  She lifts it.


	Cool.


	What are you doing?


	It's freezing out here.

She scrambles in the window.  Joel looks around, panicked.


		
	Clementine.


	I couldn't believe you did that.  I was
	paralyzed with fear.

The front door opens and Clementine stands there beckoning.


	C'mon, man.  The water's fine.  Nobody's
	coming here tonight, believe me.  This
	place is closed up.  Electricity's off.


	I hesitated for what seemed like forever.


	I could see you wanted to come in, Joel.

He walks cautiously toward the door.


	As soon as you walked in.  I knew I had
	you.  You knew I knew that, right?



Joel enters the darkened and Clementine closes the door
behind him.


	I knew.


	I knew by your nervousness that Naomi
	wasn't the kind of girl who forced you to
	criminally trespass.


	It's dark.


	Yeah.  What's your girlfriend's name?


	Naomi.

She's searching through drawers for something.  She pulls out
a flashlight, shines it in Joel's face.


	Ah-ha!  Now I can look for candles,
	matches, and the liquor cabinet.


	I think we should go.


	No, it's our house!  Just tonight --
		(looking at envelope on
		 counter)
	-- we're David and Ruth Laskin.  Which
	one do you want to be?  I prefer to be
	Ruth but I'm flexible.
		
	Alcohol!  You make drinks.  I'm going
	find the bedroom and slip into something
	more Ruth.  I'm ruthless at the moment.

She runs upstairs, giggling.  The room is drying out, turning
into a husk.


		
	I really should go.  I really need to
	catch my ride.


	I didn't want to go.  I was too nervous.
	I thought, maybe you were a nut.  But you
	were exciting.  You called from upstairs.


		
	So go.


	I did.  I walked out the door.  I felt
	like I was a scared little kid.  I
	thought you knew that about me.  I ran
	back to the bonfire, trying to outrun my
	humiliation.  You said, "so go" with such
	disdain.


		
	What if you stay this time?


	I walked out the door.  There's no more
	memory.


	Come back and make up a good-bye at
	least.  Let's pretend we had one.

Clementine comes downstairs, vague and robotic, making her
way through the decaying environment.


	Bye, Joel.


	I love you.

She smiles.  They kiss.  It fades.






Joel finds himself hurrying back to the bonfire.  This scene,
too, is disintegrating.  It dries up and Joel is just
standing there on a faded beach at night, the bonfire frozen
in the distance like a photograph.



Joel sits in the back seat, Rob and Carrie are in the front.


	Did you have fun?

Joel nods glumly.

Carrie continues to talk, but her voice goes under as Joel
studies the faded husks of memories, piled like refuse
outside the moving car window.  He sees dried-out version of
previous interactions with Clementine playing out in loops.
He looks back and sees the memory of his ride home from the
beach with Rob and Carrie.  It, too, is decaying.  Soon all
has crumbled into dust.  Everything goes black.



Howard watches the monitor.  The last specks of light are
fading.  It grows dark.  He is tired, his eyes are hollow.
He turns to Stan, who is staring out the window at the dawn.


	Okay.

Stan turns and wordlessly begins the clean-up.  He pulls the
electrodes off of Joel's scalp, coils cable, packs bags.
Howard dials the bedside phone.  He waits as it rings.


	Hi, you've reached the Mierzwiaks.  We
	can't come to --

Howard hangs up.



Stan and Howard load the last of the equipment into the back
of the van.  He and Howard look at each other.


	So, I've got to drop the van off.


	Thanks, Stan.  Thanks.



Patrick and Mary are heading home from Boston.  Mary is
silent and depressed.  Patrick tries to break the silence.


	You want to stop for coffee or something?

Mary shakes her head "no."  Long silence.


	Well, it was sure beautiful on that
	river.  Thanks for sharing it with me.

Mary doesn't say anything.  Silence.


	Well do it again soon.



Stan pulls the van into space marked "Lacuna."  He gets out,
crosses to his car.  Mary is sitting on the hood.


	Hey.


		
	Do you swear you didn't know?


	I swear.


	And you never even suspected?  Never saw
	us behaving in any unusual way together?


	Once, maybe.

She watches him closely, waiting for him to continue.


	It was here.  At his car.  I was coming
	back from a job and spotted you together.
	You seemed caught.  I waved.  You
	giggled.


	How did I look?


		
	Happy.  Happy with a secret.

Mary starts to cry.


	And after that?


	I never saw you together like that again.
	So I figured I was imagining things.

Mary says nothing.


	I really like you, Mary.  You know that.


	Do you remember anything else?  What I
	was wearing?  Was I standing close to
	him?  Was I leaning against his car like
	I owned it?  How did he look at me when I
	giggled?  Tell me everything.


		
	You were in red.  That red sweater with
	the little flowers, I think.  You were
	leaning against his car.
		
	He looked a little like a kid.  Kind of
	goofy and wide-eyed.  I'd never seen him
	look like that before.  Happy.  You
	looked beautiful.  You looked in love.


		
	Thanks, Stan.

She stops but doesn't turn to face him.


	You're nice.
		
	But I love him.  I knew I loved him.  Now
	I know.

He nods.  She waves, heads to the elevator.



Joel awakens.  The apartment is neat, like when he went to
sleep.  He gets out of bed and heads into the bathroom.



Joel waits on the crowded platform.  The platform across the
tracks is empty.  Joel's train arrives.  It's packed.  He
squeezes on with all the other commuters.



Joel works in his cubicle over the light table.  He seems
distracted.  He dials his phone.  He's nervous.


	Hi... Naomi?  Yeah, hi!  How are you?  I
	know, I know.  It's been a long time.
	Not too much.  You?  Oh, that's great!
	Congratulations!  Maybe I could buy you
	dinner to celebrate?  Tonight?  I'm free.
	Okay, good!



Mary does paperwork at her desk.  She looks through her
reception window at the sad people waiting in the lobby with
their bags of stuff.



Mierzwiak dials his phone and waits.  He hangs up.  Mary
enters with the papers.


	I need this signed, Howard.

He takes it, unable to make eye contact.  He signs it, hands
it back.


	Thanks.
		
	So... do we talk about this... or what?


	I don't know what I'm supposed say, Mary.
	I want to do the right thing here.


	Do you love me?  Did you love me?
	Something.  I listened to my tape.  I
	can't believe I've been sitting right in
	front of it for a year.  It's like
	listening to someone else's story.  I
	mean, I hear myself talking about having
	sex with you and I can't even imagine you
	naked.  I can't even say "naked" to you!


	I have a family, Mary.


	You made me have an abortion.


	It was a mutual decision.


	You made me have you erased!  I loved
	you.  I love you!  How could you --


	I didn't make you.  You thought it best.
		
	But, look, I take full responsibility.

She looks at him for a long while.  Then, out of frustration,
she screams.



Joel sits across from Naomi.


		
	So... you haven't been involved with
	anyone in all this time?


	It's been a pretty lonely couple of
	years.


	I'm sorry.


	Well, it was my fault -- the break-up.
	I'm sorry.


	Oh, sweetie.  It really does cut both
	ways.  We were taking each other for
	granted and --


	I miss you.


	Miss you, too.
		
	I have been seeing someone for a little
	while.


		
	Oh!  Great.  That's great!


	A religion instructor at Columbia.  A
	good guy.  He's a good guy.


	I'm sorry.  I really shouldn't have --


	I'm glad you called.



Joel and Naomi are in bed having sex.  There are certain
sexual routines, habits, they have fallen back into almost
immediately.  She sticks her tongue in his ear in a way
that's trying to be sexual but just feels embarrassing to
him.  They finish and lie there.


	So you think the dissertation will get
	published?


	I don;t know.  I'm not sure there's a big
	public demand for books on Calvinism and
	Misogyny.



Clementine lies in bed with Patrick.



The platform is crowded with business commuters.  Joel is
among them.
The platform across the tracks from them is empty.  Suddenly,
Joel turns and makes his way through the crowd.  He climbs
the stairs, crosses the overpass and makes his way to the
empty platform.  An almost empty train pulls into that
platform.  Joel gets on the train and watches the business
commuters through the dirty window as his train pulls out of
the station.



Mary gets out of bed.  She has been crying all night.  She's
a wreck.  She puts on some coffee then crosses into the
living room area.  Sitting there are piles of the files from
work.  She pulls the top one out, copies the name and address
onto an envelope stuffs the file and tape cassette in.  She
pulls another file out.  This one has Joel's name on it.  She
copies it onto an envelope.



Joel says goodbye to Clementine.


	So you'll call me, right?


	Yeah.


	When?


	Tomorrow?


	Tonight.  Just to test out the phone
	lines.


	Yeah.

Joel exits.  We stay on Clementine as she watches Joel head
to his car, tromping through the snow.



Joel enters, drops his overcoat on a chair, dials the phone.


	Hi, Naomi, it's Joel.


	Hi.


	How's it going?


	Good.  I called you at work today.  They
	said you were home sick.


	I know.  I had to take the day to think.


	Yeah, I tried you at home.  Did you get
	my message?


	I just got in.


	Long day thinking.

Joel flips on messages with volume down.


	Yeah, I suppose so.


		
	Hi.  They told me you were sick!  So...
	Where are you?!  I had a really nice time
	last night.  Just wanted to say hi, so...
	hi.  Call me.  I'm home.  Call me!


	That's me.


	There you are.
		
	Naomi, it's just... I'm afraid if we fall
	back into this fast without considering
	the problems we had...


	Okay, Joel.  I suppose you're right.


	I had a good time last night.  I really
	did.


	So I'm going to get some sleep.  I'm glad
	you're okay.


	We'll speak soon.


	'Night.

She hangs up and Joel stands there for a minute feeling
creepy, then he dials the number on a piece of paper.


	What took you so long?


	I just walked in.


	Hmmm.  Do you miss me?


	Oddly enough, I do.


	Ha Ha!  You said, I do.  I guess that
	means we're married.


	I guess so.


	Tomorrow night... honeymoon on ice.



Clementine steps out onto it.  Joel follows nervously.


	Don't worry.  It's really solid this time
	of year.


	I don't know.

She takes his hand and he is suddenly imbued with confidence.


	This is so beautiful.

She squeezes his hand.


	Isn't it?

She runs and slides on the ice.  Joel is by himself now.


	I don't know.  What if it breaks?


	What if?

Clementine lies on her back and stares up at the stars.  Joel
is paralyzed.  He looks back at the shore.


	I think I should go back.


	Joel, come here.  Please.

He hesitates then gingerly makes his way over to her.  She
reaches for his hand and gently pulls him down.  He lies on
his back beside her, their bodies touching.  He wants to turn
to her, but out of shyness, doesn't.  She holds his hand.
They look up at the stars.  She smiles, doesn't say anything
and snuggles closer to him.


	Listen, did you want to make love?


	Make love?


	Have sex.  Y'know --


	Oh, um...


	Because I just am not drunk enough or
	stoned enough to make that happen right
	now.


	That's okay.  I --


	I'm sorry.  I just wanted to say that.
	This seems like the perfect romantic
	exotic place to do it and --


	Hey, Joel --


	-- and I'm just too nervous around you
	right now.


	I'm nervous, too.


	Yeah?  I wouldn't have thought that.


	Well, you obviously don't know me.


	I'm nervous because I have and enormous
	crush on you.

She smiles up at the sky.


	Show me which constellations you know.



We see people going to their mailboxes, finding manila
envelopes.  One by one they open the envelopes and pull out
tapes.  We see stunned, confused, disbelieving reactions as
people listen to their tapes.



Joel drops Clementine off.  She kisses him.



Joel enters with his mail.  He opens a manila envelope, reads
the enclosed file, sticks the cassette tape in his stereo,
listens.  Joel dials the phone.


	Yeah?


	Did you send this?  Is it a joke?


	I probably got the same thing as you.


	I mean, I haven't even told anyone I've
	met you.  Who would even know to do this?


		
	Maybe it's true then.  It's my voice on
	the tape.


	That's what you have to say?  How could
	it be true?  I never even heard of any
	procedure like this.  It's a joke.


	Maybe.  Call someone who'd know.



We see the people we saw opening envelopes, now on the phone.
We hear over and over:  "Is this true?", "Did this really
happen?", "Do I know you?", "Is it true?"



Carrie is on the phone.  She pauses nervously, then speaks:


	Yes, Joel.  It is true.  We weren't
	supposed to say anything.  They say it's
	like waking a sleepwalker.



Joel hangs up.  He dials the phone.


	It's true.


	I know.  I spoke to my friend Magda.

Joel is immersed in the several page document.


	Look, I have to go.  I have to think.


	Joel, we've fucked.  We've made love.
	Like a million times.  And we were so
	sweet and shy and inept with each other
	last night.  Isn't that lovely?

Joel doesn't know what to say as this registers.  He just
stands there dumbly.


	Come over here, sweetheart.  Please.



Joel and Clementine review their separate Lacuna packages
together.


	Says you were closed off, non
	communicative, never told me what you
	were feeling.


	Says you were a bully...


		
	A bully?  Moi?


	That's what it says.  You drank too much,
	you picked on me for being passive and
	timid.


	Well, sounds like me.  Sorry, man.
		
	Says you were jealous and suspicious.


	Says you would sometimes disappear all
	night, then brag to me about your sexual
	conquests.


	Did I use the term "sexual conquests" or
	is that your way of putting it.


	I don't know.


	Doesn't sound like me.


	Says you were a slob, leaving trails of
	panties and dirty socks in your wake.


	Says you were constantly calling me a
	slob.
		
	It's sexy that we were like a married
	couple, griping and overly-familiar and
	bored.  Don't you think?


		
	I sort of do.  But I only see it as a
	fantasy version of reality.  Cleaned up
	enough to be erotic.


	We should have sex.  It's old hat for us.

She smiles at nervous Joel.


	You know my body like the back of your
	hand.

She unbuttons her blouse.


	Every curve, every freckle.

She takes off her shirt.  He stares at her.  He has clearly
never seen this body before.


	You're so beautiful.

She approaches him, kisses him, his arms wrap around her
waist for the first time.



Stan enters the waiting room, now crowded with people holding
their files, a stunned-looking lot.  There is a new woman in
the reception window.  The file cases behind her are bare.


	May I help you?


	I work here.  I used to work here.  Stan.
	Please just tell Howard I'm here to clean
	out my desk.


		
	Mr. Mierzwiak, Stan is here to -- Yes
	sir.
		
	He says he needs to see you.



Stan enters.  Mierzwiak is pale and pacing.


	She should not have done this, Stan.  As
	mad as she was... as justifiably --


	I don't know what you're talking about,
	Howard.


	Mary has stolen our files and is sending
	them back to people.


	Jesus.

Mierzwiak turns up the volume on a small video monitor
looking in on the lab, where Patrick has clearly taken over
Stan's position.  He is in the process of interviewing a sad
young woman.


	... so I called everybody I know and
	asked them to tell me everything.  Now I
	know my entire history with him, but it's
	in the form of a story, I'm losing my
	mind.


	This is why people must never be told.
	It's like waking a --


	I don't know what to do.  Before I
	thought I was depressed for no reason.
	Now it's like I've been assigned a
	reason.


	This never should've happened, ma'am.
	We'll take care of it.


	I know you don't like me much, Stan, but
	please talk to Mary.  She of all people
	should know this is a dangerous thing
	she's doing.



Joel works over his light box.  His phone rings.


	Hi, it's Joel.


	Hey, lover.  Whatcha doing?


	I'm just, y'know, passing the time best I
	can till I can see you.


	God, I can't believe I ever hated you.


	You must have been crazy.


	Guess what I'm wearing.


	I don't know.  Panties and --


	Your dried cum.


	Jesus.


	You're still excited by my irreverence.
	You haven't yet started to think of it as
	my "gratuitous need to shock."


	I can't stop thinking about you.


	Yay.  Meet me after work by the old mill.


	What old mill?  Is that somewhere we --


	I just wanted to say that.  Come by my
	house.



Mary opens the door.  Stan stands there with two cups of take
out coffee.


	Oh.


	Hi.


	What do you want, Stan?


	Can I... I brought some --

She steps aside for Stan to enter.  He does, looks around,
sees the tapes and the stuffed envelopes on the floor.


	What's this?


	Nothing.


	I know what it is.


	Then why did you ask me?


	I don't know.  I just -- there are a lot
	of really confused people showing up at
	the office.


	They have a right to know.  Howard is a
	thief.  He steals the truth.
		
	I can't remember my baby!  I can't
	remember my baby.  It existed and I can't
	even remember.  Do you understand that?

Stan doesn't know what to say.  He stands there dumbly.  Mary
slumps into a ball on a chair.


	Mary, people come to him voluntarily.


	I won't allow it.  Those who cannot
	remember the past are condemned to repeat
	it.  What do you think of that?  That's
	from my quote book.


	The office is filled with people who want
	their memories re-erased.


		
	Remember the Alamo!  Remember the Alamo!


	Mary... please.  This is hurting people.

Long pause, then:


		
	I don't want to hurt people.
		
	But these things happened!  All these
	little sadnesses, the big ones.  What if
	no one remembers?  What does that do to
	the world?
		
	Someone has to remember, Stan.

They look at each other.



Vague elliptical images of a young girl on a swig.


	I was by myself in the park because my
	friend Davia was sick that day.  I was on
	a swing.  There was this smiling man
	walking a little bushy dog --

Vague shots of a man smiling, a scruffy dog on a leash.


	The man said something like, "He's
	friendly --"

Vague shot of the man, his voice overlapping with the
woman's.


	"-- he won't bite."


	He won't bite.  You can pet him if you
	want...

Shot of the girl petting the dog.


	Do you want to give him a biscuit?

The girl nods.


	They're in my car.  Why don't you --


	Excuse me?  Hello?



Mary, with a headset on, looks up, startled.  She switches
off the tape.  She has been crying.  There's a pile of tapes
next to her.  The distraught woman is standing there.


	May I help you?


	I'm here for Dr. Mierzwiak.  My name is
	Helene Kernfeld.


	Yes, please have a seat.  The doctor will
	be with you momentarily.

The woman sits.  Mary presses an intercom button.


	Howard, your 10:30.

She switches the tape back on.


	He took me to his car and ...

Vague shot of the girl being raped.



The old woman is staring off blankly, her giant manuscript in
her lap, as she travels over the New York skyline.  We move
into her eyes.



Vague reenactments of memories intermingle in this undefined
space:

The young girl being raped by the man in the car.

A soldier on a battlefield looking at his slaughtered
friends.

A couple fighting, from the woman's point of view.


	I...I... I... find you physically
	repulsive!  I can't even look at you!

They look at each other in silence.

A little boy being called "faggot" by an endless succession
of boys.

The aftermath of a car accident from the driver's POV.

Mary having an abortion.



The old woman and her chair lift out of the line of
commuters.



It's modern and well-appointed.  The old woman enters, sits
behind the reception desk, drops her manuscript into the
drawer.   She takes some pills with water.  An old man
enters.


	How are you today, Mary?


	Let's see... Still dying, Howard.


	You don't have to jump down my throat.  I
	was trying to be nice.


	Well, don't try.  It's unbecoming on you.

Old Howard mutters something and disappears into the back.
Old Mary pulls out a file from behind, removes a small disc,
places it in a machine on her desk, slips on earphones and
listens, somewhat wearily but attentively.  We watch the
color drain from her face, but don't hear the recording.
Another old woman enters the office.  Old Mary looks up,
seems a bit startled, conceals it, turns off the tape.


	May I help you?


	I'd like to make an appointment.


	I think the doctor is free this morning.
	He can probably take you right away for
	an initial consultation.

The second old woman smiles gratefully.



Old Howard works at his desk.  Old Mary enters with the
second old woman.


	Dr. Mierzwiak, this is Clementine
	Kruczynski.  She'd like to talk to you.

Old Howard and the old Mary eye each other.


	Hello, Ms. Kruczynski.  Nice to meet you.
	Please have a seat.

He indicates a sitting area.  She sits.  He joins her.


	Would you mind if I tape our discussion?

She shakes her hear.  He punches a couple of buttons on his
computer console.  A tape recorder starts up and his computer
screen lights up so only he can see it.  On it we see a whole
file on Clementine Kruczynski: a list of fifteen dates of
previous erasures stretching back fifty years, all of them
involving Joel Barish.


	So, why don't you begin by telling me why
	you've come here.


	Well, I met this man, Joel, three years
	ago at a senior dance...  We'd both been
	alone for so long and...



The old woman  travels in the commuter tube over
Manhattan.  It's late, the tube is mostly empty.  She has
earphones on.


	I remember Joel and I were having
	breakfast --



An old man and the second old woman eat breakfast.


	-- I said something like we should go
	upstate and see the leaves change...

The old man looks up from his cereal and stares blankly.  The
woman smiles, but there is no response... just a dead stare.



	He just stared at me as if I didn't
	exist.  As if I had never existed...



The second old woman's  voice drones tinnily on
in the distance.  The old woman with the earphones is dead,
her eyes glassy and unseeing.


	-- his eyes used to be so filled with
	love.  But it was gone.  How can I go
	back to being alone after seeing love?  I
	was alone for so long.  What had I done
	with my life?  I was alone so long.



The old Clementine is unconscious on her bed, hooked up to
modern versions of the erasing machines.  Two young
technicians monitor the equipment.  The woman's bedside phone
rings.  Her machine picks up.  After a moment:


	Hi, it's Joel.  What's going on, Clem?
	Why won't you call me back?  Please call
	me.  We need to speak.

The machine clicks off.  One of the technicians reaches over
and presses the "erase" button on the machine.





