



if 
top.location.href=location.href


SILVER BULLET by Stephen King Based on his story "Cycle of the Werewolf"








It nearly fills the screen, swimming mysteriously in the
warm late summer air.

SOUND: Crickets.








A rail-rider comes chugging along the tracks. Aboard is
ARNIE WESTRUM, a big man in a strappy T-shirt and chino
pants. He is drinking beer.

		ARNIE 
	My beer is Rheingold the dry beer...
	Think of Rheingold whenever you buy beer...

He drains the rest of his own bottle of Rheingold and tosses
it to one side. Up ahead we see a switching point.

ARNIE throws the rail-rider into neutral, opens the toolbox
on the back, and brings out a big five-cell flashlight. He
shines it on the switch.

He gets a crowbar from the toolbox, plus a big wrench, a
pair of pliers, a hammer, and a pair of work gloves. He also
gets another bottle of beer and sticks it into his back
pocket.

ARNIE jumps down and approaches the switch.






He drops his tools, pulls on his work gloves, and trains the
light on the switch for a moment. During this:

		ARNIE 
	It's not bitter, not sweet, it's a real
	frosty treat, won't you try, won't you
	buy Rheingold beer...

He tries the switch. No go. It's frozen.


	Stuck tighter'n dogshit in a deep freeze!

He takes the bottle of beer from his back pocket and fishes
a churchkey from one of the front ones. He pops the cap and
drinks deeply. He burps. Then he screws the half-empty
bottle of beer into the cinders so it won't fall over. Then
he picks up his crowbar.






There's a SOUND of bushes shaking. Something comes out -
something huge. It leaps limberly onto the rail-rider. It is
a werewolf with greenish-yellow eyes. Tatters of clothes
still hang from it.

What kind of monster, exactly? It is humanoid as well as
wolfish... and when we learn who it is in its human form, we
should be able to spot the resemblance at once...and kick
ourselves for not knowing earlier.

It crouches there, huge and bushy and fanged and deadly, on
the whole rail-rider.






He's working the crowbar into the junction point just as
hard as he can. Swearing at it under his breath. Suddenly,
both the tracks and the switch move.


	Hot damn! Now... a little oil...

He turns back toward the rail-rider.





	It's not bitter, not sweet... it's
	a big fuckin' treat...

A NOISE - bushes rattling; cinders clinking and rattling.
ARNIE looks around.




Nothing there. His bottle of beer stands by the litter of
his tools.




He's rooting around in the toolbox, back to the switching
point.




A hairy hand/paw closes around it - we see huge curved claws
on that hand.




Glaring green-yellow eyes; a savage, beastial face which is
still half human. That's all we see. The rest is in shadow.
It opens its mouth and upends the bottle of beer. Foamy
Rheingold begins gurgling down the werewolf's throat.




He comes up with an old-fashioned oilcan, the kind with the
long spout. He starts back to the switching point, waving
the can.

		ARNIE 
	My beer is Rheingold the dry beer...
	Think of Rheingold whenever you fry beer...

He arrives, looks down... and stops singing. His eyes widen.




We can see the hole where ARNIE put his beer, but it is of
course empty. Beside it are two huge prints in the cinders,
half wolf, half human.




He's beginning to be afraid. Beginning to look around to see
what might be out here with him. Beginning to realize he is
in extremely deep shit.






It rises up on its hind legs, eyes glaring an ugly yellow
green. Its snout wrinkles back, revealing those teeth.




He's craning back to look at the thing, his face a grue of
horror.


	Oh n-

A huge clawed hand/paw comes sweeping down. ARNIE's head is
granted an immediate Reno-style divorce from the rest of his
body.




SOUND of the beast approaching. A hairy arm and taloned hand
reaches into the toolbox bolted to the back and rummages.
The hand is dripping blood.

It comes up with a bottle of Rheingold.

The WEREWOLF begins to sing. It is a bizarre funny-horrible
grunting, the words hellishly recognizable.

		WEREWOLF 
	My beer is Rheingold the dry beer...

No bottle opener for this thing; it brings the neck of the
bottle down sharply on the edge of the toolbox. Beer foams
out.




He/It rams the jagged neck of the bottle deep into its mouth
and drinks. Foam drizzles down its pelt. It's grinning.

		WEREWOLF 
	Think of Rheingold whenever you buy beer...




The bottle is empty. There are CRUNCHING SOUNDS as it begins
to eat the bottle.

Blood begins to run out of its mouth; its face wrinkles in
pain and fury. It spits out broken, bloody jags of glass.

Looks up. It HOWLS.




We're looking at Main Street of a small country town - might
be New England, might be mid-South. Might be 1984, might be
1981. This is Tarker's Mills, and in places like this, time
moves more slowly. Cars - not too many - move back and
forth. No one is in a hurry.

We see the Methodist church ;
Andy's Sporting Goods; Owen's Pub, with its Narragansett
neon sign. We see a barber shop with a striped pole; we see
the Holy Family Catholic Church and the rectory next door.
We see the Gem Theater, which is showing a revival of Sophia
Loren in "Two Women."
It's Our Town, U.S.A.

		JANE 
	This place is Tarker's Mills, where I
	grew up... and this is how it was when I
	was fourteen - a place where people cared
	about each other as much as they cared
	about themselves. This is how my town
	looked as, all unknowing, it approached the
	rim of the nightmare. The killing had begun.

SOUND: The HOWL of the WEREWOLF - distant, a bit dreamy.




a.) VIRGIL CUTTS, owner of Virgil's Texaco, is filling up a
car. We hear the HOWl... and VIRGIL looks up uneasily.
b.) In the barber shop, BILLY McCLAREN, the barber, is just
taking the apron off the Methodist minister, REV. O'BANION.
They both look around.
c.) Folks are coming out of the Gem Theater. They pause at
the sound of that HOWL and look toward the edge of town.




As JANE speaks, we see the moon sink below the horizon.

		JANE 
	The killing had begun, but at first no
	one knew it. Arnie Westrum was a chronic
	drunk, and what happened seemed like an
	accident.




Slowly the view improves, grows lighter, as we TIME-LAPSE TO


SOUND: A train is approaching. We hear its horn.

CAMERA MOVES IN. Here is a shattered Rheingold bottle. There
is a litter of ARNIE'S tools. And here, on the cheek of
ARNIE'S severed head, a few ants are checking things out.

SOUND: The train's horn, MUCH CLOSER.

		JANE 
	The county coroner concluded that Arnie
	passed out on the tracks. There wasn't
	enough evidence to conclude anything else.

And suddenly the train comes smashing into the frame, horn
blaring. The rail-rider goes flying. ARNIE'S body disappears
underneath. We see something flopping and moving under
there. It could be a bundle of rags. Could be... but isn't.







The common is more or less in the center of town, either
surrounded by Main Street commerce or backed by it. THE
CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY IN on a big tent that's been erected on
the Common - looks like a revival meeting tent, almost, but
the banner draped over the entrance reads: SUPPORT THE


Behind or to the side, on the grass, picnic tables have been
set out end-to-end. Women are putting salads and home-baked
breads on these - just about the whole town is going to sit
down to a meal when the meeting's over. Further off, men are
tending barbecues, roasting corn, etc.

		JOE HALLER 
	I'd like to give you Father Lester Lowe,
	of Holy Family Catholic Church!

Enthusiastic applause greets this.




Most of the town is here, seated on folding chairs. We're
looking particularly at three people - NAN COSLAW, her
husband BOB, and their fourteen-year-old daughter, JANE. It
is JANE - a slightly older JANE - who we have heard
speaking. She is now a bit bored with the meeting, which has
been going on for some time. As the APPLAUSE CONTINUES, she
leans toward her mother.


	I'm going out for a while, 'kay?


	All right. Stay close. And make sure your
	brother's all right.

As JANE gets up, the applause starts to fade a bit.

NOTE: JANE is wearing a silver crucifix, and will continue
to wear it through the whole movie.




To one side is a big black-and-white photograph on an easel.
It shows a van which has been customized into an emergency
medical unit.

Behind the podium are four chairs. REV. TOM O'BANION sits in
one of them. ANDY FAIRTON sits in another, red-faced and
beaming. JOE HALLER, the town constable, is just returning
to his; LESTER LOWE is just approaching the mike as the
applause dies. LOWE'S face shines with love and goodwill.


	For the last ten years...

No amplification. He taps the mike.




She is making her way down the row to the aisle (the people
should be seated in folding chairs). She passes a GIRL of
about her own age who has overheard NAN'S parting shot.

		GIRL 
	"Make sure your brother's all right."

		JANE 
	Marty's a booger.

She reaches the aisle and starts out.




He taps the mike again.




		BOB 
	Just pretend you're in your own church
	askin' for money, father! It'll work fine!

Good-natured laughter greets this.




A bit flustered, he taps the mike and is rewarded by a BRIEF



	For the last ten years, I have had a
	dream. A dream of a time when modern
	medical care would come to this small
	community, which sometimes seems so far
	from Durham, with her lifesaving
	hospitals. I hope that this meeting, at
	which I see so many of my friends
	gathered, will be the start of making my
	dream come true.

SOUND: Enthusiastic applause.




It's a blacksnake... harmless, but big. It goes wriggling
through the grass toward a stream. In the b.g. - SOUND OF


		MARTY 
	Holy...! Brady, are you sure they're
	not poisonous?

		BRADY 
	Little old blacksnake? Hell, no!

Hands - the rather grimy hands of a boy bent on mischief -
grab the blacksnake.




BRADY holds the snake up. Both boys gaze at it with
respectful wonder.

NOTE: MARTY is wearing a silver St. Cristopher's medallion,
and will through the whole movie.


	Lemme hold him!

BRADY hands it over. As MARTY looks at the snake, BRADY
sees:




		JANE 
	I was almost fifteen that summer. My
	brother Marty was eleven. Marty and his
	friend Brady Kincaid were the crosses I
	had to bear. Brady was actually the worse
	of the two, but I was rarely disposed to
	see that. Not when my younger brother was
	so constantly thrown in my face by my
	parents.

		LOWE 
	$32,000 is a lot of money. But when you
	think of the lives this unit might save, it
	seems very inexpensive indeed.

Applause greets this.




Again we are fairly tight on the boys - we see them from
waist or chest height. BRADY snatches back the snake.


	I got an idea.


	What?

BRADY looks toward JANE. MARTY follows his gaze. His eyes
widen.


	You wouldn't.

BRADY grins. MARTY assesses the grin.


	You would.





	An endeavor like this seems to me to be
	the very definition of community - all
	of us pulling together as one, farmers
	and merchants... Protestants and Catholics...




She is walking slowly toward the picnic area, and is passing
under a tree. There's more applause from the tent.

		BRADY 
	Jane... Jane...

She looks up. The blacksnake dangles down toward her, almost
touching her upturned face.

JANE shrieks and bolts. She gets a little way, trips over
her own feet and falls down hard. She's wearing what was a
nice jumper and nylons. Now the jumper is torn and the hose
shredded at the knees.




He's lying over a limb with the snake in his hand, laughing
wildly.




She gets up, looks at her clothes, her bloody knees. She's
near tears.




The shot's from the chest up. He looks sorry he was a part
of this little stunt, as he ought to be.


	It was just a blacksnake, Jane-




She looks around at him in a fury of embarrassment and
something very close to hate.


	Look at my knees! Look at my dress!
	I hate you!





	Did wittle Janie make wee-wee in her
	teddies?





	Stop it, Brady.




He throws the snake.




She dodges the snake with a little scream. She's beginning
to cry, but she flips BRADY the bird just the same.





	Ooooh, naughty!




He moves toward JANE - there is something queerly unnatural
in this movement, and in a moment we'll understand, but for
the time being we must be puzzled.


	Jane, I'm sorry. It was just a joke. We
	didn't mean-

He's reached her. JANE is sobbing now, hysterical.


	Oh, no! You never mean to! I hate you,
	you booger!

She runs away.




He swings down and comes over to MARTY.

		BRADY 
	Really got her goat that time.




He's in a wheelchair, looking glumly after JANE.


	Oh, shut up, Brady. You're warped.




She's walking slowly along, still crying a little. Now she
steps behind some bushes, looks around, hikes up the skirt
of her jumper, and wriggles out of the wrecked panty hose.

		STELLA RANDOLPH 
	Wait! Don't go!

Startled, JANE looks around, instinctively yanking her dress
down. No one in sight.

		MAN 
	Just leave me alone!

Now she looks toward:




A man who looks like he might be a traveling salesman who
has just stepped whole and breathing from a dirty joke about
the farmer's daughter comes striding down from the
bandstand.

STELLA RANDOLPH, a plump but sweetly pretty girl, comes to
the stairs but does not descend them. She is also crying -
but these are real tears, folks. STELLA is a human Niagara
Falls.

		STELLA 
	Please! You have to help me!




		DECEIVER 
	It's your oven, but it ain't my bun
	you're baking in there. Sorry, babe.

B.g. SOUNDS: More applause.




We can hear STELLA sobbing as JANE walks slowly toward the
bandstand with her panty hose still balled up in one hand.
JANE looks suddenly aware that she's not the only one in
this sad world who has troubles. She reaches the foot of the
stairs going up to the bandstand and tosses the hose
absently in a litter can.

JANE mounts the steps timidly.


	Stella? Is that you?




STELLA has retreated to one of the benches, where she is
bawling into a handful of Kleenex. Pudgy and twenty-two, she
is both funny and terribly sad. She looks around at the
sound of JANE's voice.

		STELLA 
	Who - ?

		JANE 
	It's Jane, Stella. Jane Coslaw.

STELLA sees it is, and turns away from her, still weeping.
JANE stands, uncertain what to do next. After a moment she
approaches closer and touches STELLA'S turned back timidly.

		JANE 
	What's wrong?

		STELLA 
	He's going away. I know he is.


	Who's going away?

STELLA turns to her, weeping still and distracted.


	What am I going to tell my mother? If
	he won't marry me, what am I going to
	tell my mother?

		JANE 
	Stella, I don't know what-


	Oh, leave me alone! Just leave me
	alone, you stupid thing!

STELLA lumbers across the bandstand and down the steps. JANE
stares after her, bewildered and perhaps even a little
frightened.





	Let us pray.




Most of them bow their heads.





	May the Grace of God shine upon those
	gathered here... and lift them up... and
	grant success to the endeavor to which
	they have so openheartedly declared their
	support. Amen.




They raise their heads. Some echo the "Amen." Others cross
themselves.




People are coming out and getting ready to chow-down.




Traveling along a country road. Headed home.




BOB and NAN COSLAW are sitting up front. MARTY and JANE are
in the backseat. JANE is as far from MARTY as she can get.
She's still mad as hell. Band-Aids crisscross her knees.

MARTY'S wheelchair is collapsed in the cargo area of the
wagon.

NAN turns around to look at the kids - and it's really JANE
she's mad at.


	I want you two to bury the hatchet.
	You're being very silly, Jane.

		JANE 
	Did you see my knees?


	Jane, I-


	I think you're being mean as well as
	silly. Your brother has never had a
	scraped knee in his whole life.

Well, here it is - the chief source of JANE'S animus against
her brother and the source of most of the tension in the
COSLAW family.

MARTY winces and turns away a little, embarrassed - this
always happens. He doesn't like it, but he doesn't know how
to make his parents - his mother in particular - quit it.


	You always take his side because he's a
	cripple! Well, it's not my fault that he's
	a cripple!


	Come on, Jane- it was Brady's idea. I
	couldn't stop him.


	Brady's a booger and so are you!


	Jane Coslaw!

		BOB 
	Stop it or I'll throw the whole bunch of
	you out!

In this traditional family unit, BOB is the Voice of
Authority. They all heed, although the atmosphere remains
thundery.




Train tracks run near the road.




		BOB 
	That's where poor old Arnie Westrum
	pitched his last drunk.

He crosses himself and they all look toward:


EXT.  THE GS&amp;WM RAILROAD TRACKS 





	They had to pick up what was left of
	him in a peach basket.


	Oh, Daddy! Gross!


	Did he really get his head cut off, Dad?
	That's what Brady said.


	If you don't stop it I'm going to vomit.
	I mean it.

		NAN 
	You're not going to vomit, Jane. And I
	think we've all had quite enough of this
	horror-movie talk.




Craning back to look at the spot where ARNIE bit the dust.
His face is thoughtful, solemn.







JANE is lying in bed, her face to the wall. Dim light falls
on her unhappy face as the door is opened.

		MARTY 
	Janey?... Are you awake?

JANE says nothing.




He is in his "house wheelchair" - not the Silver Bullet (he
was in the Bullet during the Common scene, but we didn't get
a very good look at it). He has some stuff on his lap. A
box, for sure.


	Can I come in?




Her eyes are open but she says nothing. Just looks at the
wall.




He rolls across to her bed and puts something on her night
table. SOUND of change and a rattle of paper. She rolls over
and sees he's put about three bucks on the table. Plus a can
of mixed nuts.


	What's the money for?


	A new pair of panty hose. Is it enough?


	I don't want your money. You're a booger.


	It was Brady's idea, Jane. Honest to God.
	Please take the money. I want to make up.

She looks at him and sees he's sincere - honestly contrite.
She softens. There's hope for these two kids yet, maybe.


	I can get a pair of L'Eggs down at the
	pharmacy for a dollar forty-nine. Here.

She pushes the rest back to him, then looks at the can. She
picks it up, curious.


	That's for you, too. Uncle Al gave it
	to me-

		JANE 
	That drunk!


	-but I want you to have it.

He gives her a warm, melting smile. When your little brother
is being good to you it's time to watch out - but JANE has
been lulled. She starts to open it, then looks questioningly
at him.


	Yeah, go ahead.

She opens it. A long paper snake - the kind with a spring
inside it - leaps out. She shrieks.


	You booger!

MARTY backs up the wheelchair so he's out of her reach.

		MARTY 
	It really is for your birthday, though -
	try it on Brady. He'll wet his pants.


	Go to hell!




		MARTY 
	I love you, Janey.




She tries to be angry with him... and cannot (this is a
response, we'll find, that both MARTY and his UNCLE AL
evoke). She smiles at him a little.




He reverses his wheelchair, also smiling a little, and
leaves.




We're looking down at a brave little nestle of lights.






There's one light on upstairs and another downstairs... also
downstairs is the bluish flicker of TV light.

An ivy trellis climbs one side of the house.

SOUNDS: Canned laughter; TV dialogue.




STELLA'S MOTHER, asleep in front of the TV.




A whole bunch of capsules are dumped into it.

THE CAMERA DRAWS BACK to show us STELLA, sitting by her
vanity mirror. The rest of the room is reflected in the
mirror, including the window - we are upstairs.

[NOTE: It would be nice to see that fat moon floating in the
window!]

There's a framed picture of STELLA's ex-boyfriend on the
vanity beside the dish of pills. STELLA sets down the empty
prescription bottle the pills came from beside this picture.
We can clearly read the word "Nembutol" on it. There is also
a large glass of water on the vanity table.

STELLA turns the picture facedown. She might be crying but
probably she's not. She takes about five of the pills,
starts to lift them to her mouth-

A HOWL outside... closer.

STELLA looks around for a moment, then takes the pills with
some water. She pauses, looking at herself.


	Suicides go to hell. Especially if
	they're pregnant. And I don't even care.

She takes another five pills. And another five.

SOUNDS: Rattling foliage.




Claw-hands are seizing it and climbing. SOUNDS of hoarse,
guttural breathing.




She takes another handful of pills... and the window behind
her shatters inward. There is a bellowing roar as the
werewolf throws itself through.




She sits up, startled awake.

From upstairs: ANOTHER SHATTERING ROAR... FOLLOWED BY A





She runs... and a huge claw-hand rips through the back of
her nightgown.





	Oh my dear God... Stella!

She runs for the doorway and the hall. From upstairs comes a
confusion of SOUNDS: roars, breaking furniture, shattering
glass.




One of those deadly claw-hands sweeps down the bed, ripping
through the sheets... the mattress... the spring itself.

Hairy, muddy feet with protruding talons leap onto it.




The werewolf leaps out - it's graceful, savage, animal.






She's found an ancient pistol somewhere and is lugging it
gamely along.


	Stella!...Stella!

She reaches the closed door of STELLA's room, vacillates
there for a moment... and then pushes it open and goes in.

A long beat of silence as we hold on the door.






She shrieks again.




It's a total shambles; blood is splattered everywhere; the
mirror is broken, the picture of DAN the gay deceiver is
broken; the bed is torn in two. There are big, muddy
wolfprints on the remnants of the bed.

STELLA lies propped in the corner with Nembutols all around
her. Suicide may have been what she planned, but it sure
isn't what happened.






a.) MR. PELTZER puts out his paper rack - just the
"Press-Herald" this morning. He looks shocked and grim. The
scare headline: BRUTAL MURDER ROCKS WESTERN MAINE. We can
see STELLA'S photograph.
b.) Through the window of Robertson's Luncheonette, we see
the proprietor, BOBBY ROBERTSON, talking earnestly with a
bunch of men. Among them: MILT STURMFULLER, ALFIE KNOPFLER,
VIRGIL CUTTS, BILLY McCLAREN, and ELMER ZINNEMAN, a farmer
we'll meet later.
c.) At Andy's Sporting Goods, ANDY FAIRTON is putting a big
hand-lettered sign in the window. It reads: REMINGTON


d.) At the Methodist parsonage, a '53 Dodge pulls slowly out
and MOTHER RANDOLPH gets out, weeping. As she approaches the
parsonage door, LESTER LOWE comes out and embraces her.




The sign reads: TARKER'S MILLS TOWN OFFICE.




Neatly lettered on the panel: TARKER'S MILLS CONSTABULARY.
And below this: JOSEPH HALLER.

		JOE HALLER 
	Okay...yes...Oh, fuck off!




HALLER slams the phone down with an angry bang. He looks
like a guy who has been up all night. PETE, his pudgy
deputy, looks like a high school athlete who has suddenly
found himself batting in the World Series.


	What'd they say, Joe?


	They said they'd be here by noon.

		PETE 
	Maybe it wasn't such a good idea telling
	that Smokey Bear from the Detective
	Division to fuck off, Joe.

		HALLER 
	I waited until he hung up. Jesus, what a
	mess. I wish I'd stayed in the army. Let's
	go on out there.

He gets slowly up.




It's a comfortable red-brick building on a side street. Ivy
climbs up the sides. Two or three rows of bikes stand along
one side of the building.

SOUND: The bell rings.

A beat or two, then the doors bang wide and a billion kids
spill out. It's the end of the first day of school, and they
are excited. They range from Grade 1 to Grade 8. Most kids
book it for home as fast as they can, getting on their bikes
and riding or just running.

Everyone has a pink report card.





BRADY and TAMMY are riding bikes. Now there is the SOUND of
a gasoline engine, and MARTY catches up. He's got the Silver
Bullet's motor running for the first time in the movie.
Later on it will sound extremely powerful, like a racing
car, but now it just sounds like a big lawnmower engine with
a muffler on it. It's pretty cool, though - a bright
metallic silver with flame decals on the motor housing.
Looks sort of like something Big Daddy Roth might have
thought up. On the back is a license plate which says SILVER



	Look out! Look out! It's Madman Marty and
	the Silver Bullet!

TAMMY laughs.


	You glad to be back in jail, Marty?


	Sure - I like school.


	You booger.


	That's what my sister says, too. Pretty
	soon I'm going to start checking the
	mirror to see if I'm turning green.


	I gotta split - see ya, Marty... Tammy.




TAMMY and MARTY watch as BRADY zooms off toward home on his
bike.
MARTY pushes in a hand clutch and moves a small lever. He
bumps down over the curb and they cross the street side by
side, TAMMY on her bike, MARTY in his wheelchair.




He pops up over the curbing with a bounce. He shoves in the
little hand clutch and revs the engine. Va-room!


	Not bad, huh? My Uncle Al took off the
	regular muffler and put on a Cherry Bomb.


	What's that?


	Glasspack. He said he'd come over sometime
	this summer and we'd soup up the engine...
	but now I dunno. He's getting a divorce and
	he's in the doghouse with my mother.


	For getting a divorce?


	Well... it is his third.





The other kids are gone; they are alone. The sidewalk has
ended and they roll slowly along the dirt verge of the road.
They look toward:




The driveway is blocked off with a sawhorse bearing the
stenciled words POLICE INVESTIGATION. The yard is filled
with cop cars - HALLER'S constable car, plus a number of
state police vehicles. Uniformed men come and go.

We can see a large black wreath on the door.





	Thanks for coming with me, Marty- I was
	scared to go past her house by myself.

		MARTY 
	Yeah... it is a little scary.


	I mean, I saw her. All the time.

TAMMY stops her bike. She's on the verge of tears.


	I used to see her every day, and she never
	knew what was going to happen to her, and
	neither did I! I mean I know how stupid
	that sounds, but...


	Hey, take it easy. I know how you feel.

He gets the Silver Bullet moving again, and she has to pedal
along to catch up.




They stop at the end.


	There's something else scary.


	What?

		TAMMY 
	That.




It stands a bit behind the house itself. A creepy place.
Many of the glass panes are broken; some of these - not many
- have been blocked with cardboard. The inside is a jungle
of plants that have run to riot. In the f.g. is a
mucky-looking garden patch where nothing much is growing.




She is quite deeply troubled.


	I've been hearing noises in there.


	What kind of noises?


	Rattling. Rustling.


	Rats...


	And my dad says it's kids. But it's not
	rats and it's not kids. It's-




Oh my suds and body, here is the Great American Alcoholic
for sure - the rural version. MILT is wearing a suit of
pee-stained thermal underwear. He's wearing a baseball cap
with the word "Caterpillar" on the front and has a bottle of
beer in one hand (I'm pretty sure that his beer is Rheingold
the dry beer). With his other hand he is busily scratching
his crotch.


	Tammy, you get on in here and do some
	dishes!




Sinister...spooky.

		TAMMY 
	I've got to go.





	I'd go out and take a look myself, but I
	think the Bullet'd get stuck in the garden.
	It looks sorta greasy.

She smiles at him, bends over, and kisses him on the mouth.
MARTY is stunned... but happy.


	You would, wouldn't you?

		MARTY 
	Sure. No sweat.


	Well, it's probably nothing. I'm just spooked
	since... you know.


	Yeah... but if you hear any more noises,
	tell your father. Okay?


	Okay. Have you got enough gas to get home,
	Marty?

		MARTY 
	Jeez!




There's a gas gauge here, and the needle is almost on "E."





	I'm always doing this! I gotta go, Tammy.

		MILT 


		TAMMY 
	Coming Daddy!  Bye... thanks
	again for coming home with me.

She waves and goes biking down the driveway as MARTY motors
back onto the street and turns toward town.




She brings her bike to a stop by her father.


	'Bout time. Why you want to hang around
	that cripple?


	I like him.


	Goddamn cripples always end up on welfare.
	Ought to electrocute all of 'em. Balance
	the fucking budget.

Having delivered this pearl of wisdom, MILT goes inside, now
scratching his ass. TAMMY pauses a moment and looks toward
THE CAMERA, her face troubled and scared.










He's buzzing along toward downtown, which is still some
distance away - but at least he's made it back to the
sidewalk again.

		MARTY 
	Come on, baby-

He looks down at:




Now the needle is lying all the way over on "E."




MARTY pulls in. The wheelchair motor starts to pop and lug
and misfire. The chair makes it to the first pump on the
island closest to the street and then stalls as VIRGIL CUTTS
comes over.


	Well, Marty! I see you lucked out again!


	Yep. Would you fill it up, please, Mr. Cutts?


	Want me to check the oil?


	Sure!


	Wipe the windshield an check the driver's
	bullshit level?

MARTY laughs; VIRGIL starts carefully pumping gas into the
Silver Bullet's small tank.




Overhead is the moon, three days past the full.

		UNCLE AL 
	I'll see your Carlton Fiske and raise you
	a George Brett... a Dave Kingman... and a
	Rod Carew.




She's wiping her hands with a dishtowel and looks like she
just bit into a lemon.




UNCLE AL is the family's sheep of a darker color. He's
thirty, good-looking, raffish. He's also drunk. He's got
both whiskey and beer. An ashtray beside him overflows with
butts.

He and MARTY are playing draw poker for MARTY'S baseball
cards. Each has a pile in front of him.

MARTY really loves UNCLE AL... his eyes just glow when he
looks at him.


	Okay, okay. I call.

He tosses in three baseball cards.


	Wait a minute, wait a minute!

He grabs one of MARTY'S cards, looks at it, and tosses it
back.


	Ralph Houk! You can't bet a manager!
	Stone the crows!


	Okay, okay. Dwight Evans.


	Piss on him. Piss on all the Red Sox.

He swallows whiskey and chases it with beer.




NAN comes briskly over. She's seen and heard enough. She
favors UNCLE AL with a glare and then looks protectively at



	Come on, Marty- bedtime.

She starts to wheel him away.


	Mom-!


	Let the boy finish the game, Nan.

He means it, drunk or not. She reluctantly rolls MARTY back
to the table.


	Make it quick.

UNCLE AL lays down his hand.


	Three kings.

		MARTY 
	I got a straight to the queen!


	Bullshit luck!

		NAN 
	That's enough!

		MARTY 
	Aww, Mom-!




MARTY is sitting in a stair chair that rises slowly to the
second floor. He looks dejected and glum.

SOUND of NAN hectoring her brother AL. I don't think we can
make out all of what's going on, but we've all known women
like NAN and I think we can fill in the blanks. "Christian
household... you come here drunk and expect... can't even
bother to call ahead..." Etc., etc.

A wheelchair stands on the second-floor landing. This one is
no Silver Bullet, only the more humble sort that moves by
arm power. When the stair chair clicks to a stop, MARTY
hoists himself from it into the wheelchair and rolls down
the hall toward the bathroom.

Below, NAN'S rant is still going on.




UNCLE AL is clearing up in a kind of drunken stupor- and I
mean he is really drunk. He's smoking one cigarette; another
is smoldering away in the heaping ashtray. He drops a pile
of baseball cards on the floor and bonks his head on the
table bending down to pick them up.


	I don't want you drinking around Marty.
	That's too much. If you can't stop it,
	you better stay away.

AL straightens up. There is a sort of command force in this
man, and here he is partly able to rise above his abysmal
drunkenness so we can see it.


	I come here because Marty needs a friend.


	Yes... you've always been that to him.
	But if you can't leave your booze in
	whatever dump you call home, you better
	just stay away.

She leaves the room, almost crying. UNCLE AL looks after
her, and then his attention is drawn to the smoldering
ashtray. He pours beer over the mess, putting out the fire
but creating something that looks even worse. He begins
drunkenly picking up again.

		UNCLE AL 
	Another wonderful time at Sister Nan's
	house! Heeyyy!




MARTY, now in pj's, is brushing his teeth.

JANE comes in- she's wearing a nightie.


	Mom was really mad at him this time,
	wasn't she?


	What do you expect, when he comes in
	smelling like a brewery and looking like
	an unmade bed?


	Stop it!

He lunges at her, but JANE steps back easily. MARTY
overbalances and falls out of the wheelchair. His toothbrush
clatters across the tile.

		BOB COSLAW 
	Hey! That you, Marty?


	He's okay, Dad!

She looks around swiftly, then bends down.




One of MARTY'S cheeks is pressed against the floor. His eyes
are shut. He's weeping.

		JANE 
	Marty, are you all right?


	Yes. Go away.


	Let me help you up.

		NAN 
	Marty?

SOUND of her climbing the stairs.

JANE throws a quick look back over her shoulder and then
helps MARTY up in his chair. He helps by pulling on the sink
counter. JANE has time to give MARTY one quick look- "Please
don't tell on me," it says.

NAN comes in.


	Jane, have you been teasing your
	brother again?


	She wasn't, Mom- I dropped my toothbrush
	and fell over when I tried to get it. Jane
	helped pick me up.

He bats his eyes at her.

		MARTY 
	Jane's wunnnderful.

JANE picks up his toothbrush.

		JANE 
	Here. Brush them good, Marty. Some of that
	shit in your head might leak down into your
	mouth and poison you.


	Jane Coslaw!

But JANE stalks off. MARTY is grinning. It was a good
put-down.




We can see the moon in the sky beyond the ruined greenhouse.

THE CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY TOWARD the greenhouse. We begin to
pick up SOUNDS: RATTLING...RUSTLING...and low animal GRUNTS.




She's deeply asleep.




"Big-time Wrestling" on the TV. SOUND of a refrigerator door
closing. MILT STURMFULLER comes into the living room from
the kitchen. He's wearing his long johns with the designer
pee stains and has a quart bottle of Rheingold the dry beer
in each hand. He sits down, looking at the TV.

		MILT 
	Give him the airplane! Wring his neck!




More noises. There is a beat of silence, and then something-
one of those earthen plant pots, I think- falls over and





He looks up briefly- he's heard something- but the crowd on
the TV is loud and the match is reaching its climax.

		MILT 
	Give him the sleeper, you fuckin bugwit!




A LOW SNARL. Plants shake and shiver. Another crash, LOUDER.




Looks toward the window. He gets up, goes over, and looks
out.




SOUND of another crash. Plants move.




He takes a shotgun from the wall, breaks it, and looks
inside.


	Let's see if you want to come back and
	break my pots all to shit after I put
	some rock salt in your asses!




The door at the end SCREECHES OPEN and MILT, still holding
the shotgun at port arms, comes cautiously in. This place is
really overgrown.

MILT advances slowly into the jungle of plants, and the
director will shoot it as he likes to build the suspense.
I'm sure that plants brush his face, and a bug or two- maybe
even a big plump spider- will land on him.

He hears a SCUTTERING SOUND and whirls.

		MILT 
	Who's there?




A mouse goes running across the warped boards (which have
pulled apart from each other, showing deep cracks between).




He relaxes and starts forward again. We keep expecting it to
happen, but it keeps not happening.

Then, as MILT is starting back toward the door, two big,
hairy arms come up through the floor- bursting through two
of those cracks and shoving the splintered boards upward-
and grab MILT'S legs at the knees.



MILT screams and triggers off the shotgun- unfortunately, it
is pointing straight up. Glass showers down on him. He is
pulled down into the shattered hole- now we can see him only
from the knees up.




She sits up in bed.

SOUNDS of ROARS and MILT SCREAMING from the greenhouse.

MRS. STURMFULLER, in a nightgown with her hair done up in
rollers, comes into Tammy's room.


	Tammy, where's your father?

SOUND: Another SCREAM from the greenhouse.




He's now waist deep in the hole in the floor, surrounded by
broken, splintered boards.



He is abruptly jerked downward again. He is being eaten from
the feet up. As he's jerked down, one of the leaning,
splintered boards rams into his chest. MILT collapses over
it like an old Roman collapsing on his sword.

A hairy arm reaches up and grabs his neck. MILT is jerked
all the way into the hole, board and all.




SOUNDS of SNARLS, GROWLS, GRUNTS.




They are hugging each other, terrified, by the window.




The police cars are now here. There's also a meat wagon. As
we watch, a number of cops- JOE HALLER and PETE SYLVESTER
are among them- approach the wagon. Many are carrying canvas
bags.




He drops the blood stained bag he's carrying, runs to the
bushes, and noisily blows his groceries.




a.) On Oak Street, MRS. THAYER is hurrying toward home,
obviously spooked. She keeps looking behind herself and
nearly flies up the steps to her house. Then there is the
endless business of fumbling with her keys. Finally she
lurches inside and slams the door.
b.) On Main Street, at the Holy Family rectory, FATHER
O'BANION is closing the shutters...and locking them.
c.) On a residential street, a kid is playing with some
plastic trucks outside of a picket fence. Except for him,
the street is deserted. His mother comes out and hauls him
in.
d.) ANDY FAIRTON, in the sporting-goods store, checks an
automatic pistol and then holsters it on his hip. He has a
pugnacious, unpleasant look.
e.) BILLY McCLAREN turns the sign on the door of his barber
shop from OPEN to CLOSED, looks out warily at the street (to
make sure there are no psycho killers out there for trims, I
guess), then leaves and locks the door behind him. THE
CAMERA FOLLOWS him down a couple of store fronts to Owen's,
where he also goes in.
f.) The paper rack in front of Peltzer's Drug/ The
"Press-Herald" headline is a sixteen-pointer: MANIAC CLAIMS





They're flying kites on the common. Some distance in the
b.g. is the bandstand. MARTY is of course flying his kite as
he sits in the Silver Bullet. The boys are having a blast.

THE CAMERA SLOWLY MOVES AWAY from the boys, centers on
Owen's Pub across the street, and ZOOMS IN.

In the window is a poster. It reads: $10,000 REWARD FOR

WHO KILLED STELLA RANDOLPH AND MILTON STURMFULLER. And, at
the bottom: TARKER'S MILLS CITIZENS' COMMITTEE.

Along comes ANDY FAIRTON. He goes into the pub.




At a f.g. table: VIRGIL CUTTS, BOBBY ROBERTSON, ELMER
ZINNEMAN, and his brother PORTER ZINNEMAN. Behind them, at
the bar, we see PETE SYLVESTER having a beer with BILLY
McCLAREN. As we look around the bar, we will also see FATHER
LESTER LOWE, sitting at an unobtrusive corner table, nursing
a beer and listening closely to the conversation.

		ELMER 
	Don't tell me an animal can't rip a man
	up the way Milt Sturmfuller was ripped up!


	But the woman's bed was ripped right down
	the middle, Elmer- it's take a chainsaw to
	do something like that!


	Damn straight!


	Shut up, Porter.  What about the
	tracks?

ANDY FAIRTON has joined the group. He sits down uninvited.


	That could be something to throw off the
	cops. And it ain't animals that try to
	confues the law; it's people do that.


	Law around here don't need much confusing.

PETE looks around at this. Being the deputy constable and
ineffectual by nature, he's pretty sensitive.

		ANDY 
	Joe Haller couldn't find his own ass if
	someone rammed it full of radium and gave
	him a Geiger counter.

		PETE SYLVESTER 
	Could be I know a fella who's still PO'd
	over getting fined two hundred bucks for
	that little fender bender out on the Ridge
	Road last year.


	Could be I know a fat old fella who ought to
	take care of his mouth before someone comes
	along and turns it inside out. I pay Joe
	Haller's salary to keep the people in this
	town safe, and he ain't doing it.


INT.  BILLY McCLAREN, AT THE BAR

He's looking toward the table where the Fairton group sits.

		BILLY 
	Last town report said you was in arrears
	your taxes, Andy. Guess you must have paid
	up, huh?





	What are you, trying to be smart?

OWEN KNOPFLER comes over.


	You guys turn down the thermostat or I'm
	gonna turn you all out. Now who's drinking?

		ANDY 
	Bring me a Schlitz.




SOUND of panting.

MARTY comes into the frame, pulling himself up by the arms.
His arms are very strong, although his legs trail limply
behind him . He sits on a branch,
untangles the kite and the string, and looks down.

		MARTY 
	Here it comes!





	Drop it!

As the kite flutters down, JANE comes biking up.


	Marty Coslaw, you get down out of
	that tree!




He descends, then hangs from the lowest branch.


	Push the Bullet over, Jane, okay?




		JANE 
	Supper was an hour ago, Dumbo.

		MARTY 
	Oh, Jeez! I forgot! Is she mad?


	They both are. At me, for not getting you
	sooner. I ought to let you fall.

But she pushes the chair over and MARTY drops into it. He
pushes the starter and the Silver Bullet fires up.




		MARTY 
	Hey, Brady! You coming?

		BRADY 
	In a while!

BRADY could give a shit if MARTY'S in trouble. He just waves
vaguely. He's into the kite-flying experience, as the folks
in Marin County might say.




He's looking toward the common, frowning and uncertain.


	Come on, Marty.

She starts biking away. MARTY starts after her, pauses, and
looks at:




CAMERA PANS SLOWLY UP to the yellow smile-kite in the
bluish-purple sky.




The former patrons are still here, with the exceptions of
LOWE, BILLY McCLAREN, and BOBBY ROBERTSON. Many others have
appeared; this is Happy Hour. Among them we see MR.
ASPINALL, the principal, and PELTZER, the druggist. A
barmaid, NORMA, circulates with drinks and beers.

Speaking of beer, ANDY FAIRTON has gotten through a fair
amount of Schlitz. It hasn't mellowed him, however; he's
more belligerent than ever.

		ANDY 
	This whole investigation has been as
	efficient as a Polish fire drill! It-

		PETE 
	I've heard enough out of you, Andy. If
	you don't shut your mouth, I'm going to
	shut it for you.




It opens and a man in a business suit- HERB KINCAID- comes
in. He is carrying a briefcase and he looks worried.




		ANDY 
	What did you say?





	Jesus wept.

He reaches under the bar and comes out with a baseball bat.
Burned into the side of the bat, so it reads vertically
toward the handle, is the word "peacemaker." OWEN hurries
around the bar with it.




PETE is standing in front of ANDY, fists balled up, fat face
trembling with determination.


	You heard what I said, motormouth.

ANDY gets up, infuriated. There's apparently going to be a
brawl. Behind them, HERB KINCAID has approached the table.
HERB hasn't even noticed what's going on; he's got problems
of his own.




He clears his throat. This is a mild, timid man- he doesn't
like to speak in public, particularly not in a bar, but the
imperatives of the situation demand it right now.

		HERB 
	Has anyone in here seen my son Brady?




Everyone looks at HERB. Conversation stops. ANDY and PETE
freeze with their fists balled up, like little kids playing
statues tag. OWEN is caught a little distance from ANDY and
PETE, with the "peacemaker" still in his hands.




Now it is almost completely dark, and a large reddish summer
moon is rising over the horizon.






All conversation has stopped. All have turned toward the
door and the windows; all hear the HOWL. Deep fright
overlies each face.

NORMA drops her tray. Glasses and bottles shatter.




JOE HALLER comes out of the constable's office in a hurry,
letting the door bang the wall. He's buckling on his gun
belt.




BRADY'S kite, torn in a couple of places, flutters on the
steps leading up to the bandstand. The yellow smile face
grins eerily in the darkness. It is streaked with blood.





	Brady!

He breaks for the door. ANDY FAIRTON grabs him.


	Get out of my way!

He pushes ANDY aside. HERB is out the door, chased by PETE
and several of the others.




		JOE HALLER 
	Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with
	thee. Blessed art thou among women...

He comes out of the shadows, his drawn gun dangling by his
side. This man has had an extremely bad shock. The legs of
his uniform pants are splashed with blood. He makes it down
two steps and then sits heavily by the remains of BRADY'S
smiling, bloody kite. He looks straight ahead. He looks at
nothing.

		HALLER 
	...and blessed is the fruit of Thy womb.
	Jesus. Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for
	us sinners now...now...

He looks at the kite, then looks away. He puts a hand over
his face and starts to cry.




A number of men - not all that were in Owen's but quite a
few of them - are running toward the bandstand. HERB KINCAID
is in the lead, screaming his son's name over and over.

SOUND: A LONG HOWL, now at some distance.




As HERB KINCAID approaches.


	Stay off the bandstand, Herb.


	Is it my boy? Is it Brady?


	Don't go up-

		HERB 
	Brady! Brady!

Disappears into the dark. HALLER looks down at his lap.


	Br-

The other men arrive, PETE in the lead. HALLER doesn't look
up.


	Joe, is it-

		HALLER 
	Shhh.


	Is it the Kicaid b-

		HALLER 
	Shhh, I said.

The men look uneasily at HALLER, at each other. ANDY FAIRTON
shoves forward.


	What the fuck is going on h-

SOUND: HERB SCREAMS. A pause. HERB screams again. The men
flinch back. HALLER doesn't look up. Now, from the darkness
on the bandstand, HERB begins to LAUGH. The men shrink back
further, looking more uneasy than ever.

		HERB 
	We'll bury his shoes.

Now HALLER gets up and joins the other men.

		HERB 
	That's what we'll have to do; we'll bury
	his shoes. Maybe in a couple of Roi-Tan
	cigar boxes.




HERB KINCAID appears. He is laughing. He is smeared with his
son's blood. In each hand he holds one of his son's shoes.


	We'll bury his shoes because his feet are
	still in them and they're the only part of
	him that makes sense anymore.

HERB laughs harder.


	It's gonna be the cheapest funeral this
	town ever saw!















SOUND: An organ is playing that sweet old hymn, "Bringing In
The Sheaves."

There are lots of cars parked in front of the church, but
there's a space left just big enough for UNCLE AL'S MG.
MARTY'S Silver Bullet is strapped to the back.

		JANE 
	My mother and father- my mother in
	particular- did not much care for Uncle
	Al...




MARTY'S chair is at the back of the church. Most of the
mourners are crying. MRS. BOWIE is playing the organ.
BRADY'S coffin is on a bier at the front - closed of course.
There are lots of flowers.

		JANE 
	...but when it came to such unpleasant
	duties as taking Marty to the funeral
	of his best friend...




As we look at them, from left to right: UNCLE AL, MARTY,


UNCLE AL unobtrusively takes a small silver flask from his
hip pocket. Engraved on it in Old English letters is the
word "rotgut." He spins the cap and takes a quick knock. He
pauses and glances at MARTY, who looks deeply stunned.

		JANE 
	...they didn't at all mind drafting him.
	As to the sort of comfort Uncle Al may
	have been able to offer him...

UNCLE AL hands the flask to MARTY. MARTY looks at him
questioningly for a moment, and then drinks. MARTY looks at
TAMMY, who looks frankly terrible. Her mother is looking
away. MARTY nudges her. She looks around at him. He offers
her the flask. Her eyes widen.

		JANE 
	...I now believe that was best kept between
	the two of them...

After a brief moment's consideration, TAMMY takes the flask
and has a deep swallow. She hands the flask back to MARTY,
who hands it quickly back to UNCLE AL as TAMMY coughs. Her
mother looks at her... then at MARTY and UNCLE AL. UNCLE AL
smiles sympathetically, hiding the flask with one hand, as
if to say, "Isn't it a terrible thing?" MRS. STURMFULLER
looks distractedly back toward the service.

		JANE 
	...or among the three of them.

UNCLE AL pockets the flask just as the organ stops playing.





	Mr. and Mrs. Kincaid have asked that there
	be no mass said here this afternoon. There
	will be a requiem mass for Brady Kincaid
	this Sunday. They did ask me to say a word
	of comfort to you, if I could.

He looks out at them.




They look back at LOWE, hoping for some help in
understanding this awful thing.





	If there is any word of comfort I can give
	you, it's just this: the face of the beast
	always becomes known; the time of the beast
	always passes.

He is struggling with this, trying dreadfully hard.


	If there are times when we feel alone and
	afraid, only small creatures in the dark,
	then these are the times when we must turn
	to one another for our comfort and our hope.
	To our neighbors. To our community. To our
	love for each other. I alone cannot ease
	the pain for Herb and Naomi Kincaid, nor can
	I ease your pain, nor you ease mine. But if
	I believe anything it's this: we can comfort
	each other. We can heal each other. We can
	go on together.




The kids are crying. MARTY puts an arm around TAMMY and she
puts her head on his shoulder.





	The Bible tells us not to fear the terror
	that creepeth by night or that which flieth
	by noonday, and yet we do... we do. Because
	there is much we don't know, and we feel
	very small. But we must not be alone. We must
	not allow ourselves to be alone, for there is
	the wide gate to the hell of terror. Turn to
	each other. Join hands in your sorrow and try
	to remember that the face of the beast always
	becomes known.  The time of the beast
	always passes.  Let us pray.




MARTY and TAMMY look at each other miserably. TAMMY begins
to cry- for her father as much as for BRADY, one would
think- and she and MARTY embrace.




He looks at the kids with deep sympathy and deep love.




UNCLE AL'S sports car passes THE CAMERA. He's taking MARTY
home.





	You all right, Marty?


	Yeah.


	There's a saying- so-and-so was better than
	a poke in the eye with a sharp stick. You
	ever hear that one?


	No.


	Well, I'm not sure that was. Christ! They
	better get the guy.


	Uncle Al, what if it's not a guy?


	Huh?


	What if it's some kind of monster?

		UNCLE AL 
	Jesus, Marty! Come off it!




It cruises past Owen's Pub. There are cars parked out front,
but there are also lots of pickup trucks.





	What's going on at Owen's, Uncle Al?


	A bunch of men getting ready to pretend
	they're Clint Eastwood... Marty, didn't
	anybody ever tell you that the only monsters
	are in comic books and drive-in movies?




UNCLE AL'S car turns in and parks.





	Tammy said she'd been hearing noises in
	that greenhouse. Growling noises, like a
	big animal. Her father was killed that night.

UNCLE AL looks at him doubtfully for a moment, as if almost
believing. Then he shakes his head.


	Marty, you have to get this idea out of
	your head. Psychotics are more active
	when the moon is full, and this guy is a
	psycho. He's going to turn out to be as
	human as you or me.  In a manner of
	speaking. Now let's get you inside.

He opens his door and gets out.




He would like to believe UNCLE AL... but he doesn't.





	Okay, you all know what group you're in and
	what area you'll be covering, right?


	Damn straight!


	Shut up, Porter.

The men are all dressed in hunting clothes-
red-and-black-checked shirts, orange caps, etc. They all
have guns. Among their number are a few women as well,
looking tough and determined. We see almost everyone we've
met up to this point. LOWE is there, looking deeply
troubled.

ANDY FAIRTON is standing on the bar. These are his
vigilantes; he has organized them. ANDY radiates male macho
football-coach confidence. He's mesmerized the crowd: they
really believe they are going to go out and Shoot One for
the Gipper.


	Groups one through four are in the woods
	north of the Sturmfuller place. Five and
	six west of Carson Creek.

The door at the back opens; HALLER and PETE come in. JOE
HALLER is in extremely bad shape. He hasn't come back much
from the murder of BRADY. I believe he is having some sort
of spiritual crisis, and while it is not our purpose to
explore what it might be- this is, after all, a horror movie
and not a John Cassavetes film- we can see that it has
seriously weakened his authority.

		ANDY 
	Moonrise at 8:52 p.m.

Some nervous laughter greets this. Meanwhile, HALLER and
PETE are working their way to the front, where they end up
next to a grim-faced HERB KINCAID.

		ANDY 
	If he comes out to stroll in the moonlight
	tonight, we're going to get the sorry sucker.




		PORTER 
	Damn straight!


	Shut up, Porter.





	Just remember, it's the psycho we want, not
	each other. So look before you-





	I want all of you folks to go home!

A disgruntled murmur meets this. HALLER moves forward a bit,
and turns to face them.


	I can't remember deputizing a single one
	of you!





	That's right, Joe- the only deputy you got is
	that fat shitbag beside you, and neither one
	of you has done a damn thing about solving
	this case.

There is a mutter of agreement.




ANDY hops off the bar to face HALLER directly. In the b.g.
we see HERB KINCAID (KINCAID, by the way, should be wearing
a black armband- he's come directly from his son's funeral).

		HALLER 
	We'll catch him.


	You couldn't catch a cold.

HALLER looks at him for a moment, then turns to look at the
crowd. They look rather like a lynch mob; on their faces we
see an uneasy mix of shame and eager determination. HALLER
speaks with a kind of haggard, fading desperation.


	The law has a name for what you men are
	planning. It's private justice, and private
	justice is about a step and a half away
	from lynch mobs and hang ropes. I'm no
	J. Edgar Hoover, but I am the law in Tarker's
	Mills, and I want you men to go home.

They shuffle their feet uneasily; many look down. He is
getting to them.


	Don't let this guy scare you! What's he done
	since this thing started but hang his face out?

It's not working. Many of the men look disgusted with both
ANDY and themselves.

		ANDY 
	He ain't got so much as a fingerprint!


	Ah, shut up, Andy.


	Don't tell me to-

HERB KINCAID steps forward.


	Yes. Correct. Shut up.

ANDY, surprised and bewildered, does. HERB turns and looks
grimly at JOE HALLER, who can barely meet his gaze.

		HERB 
	I just came from my boy's funeral.


	Herb...I know how upset- how grief-stricken
	you must be...but-

		HERB 
	He was torn apart.

Utter silence in OWEN'S place now. The others are staring,
rapt.


	Yes. Yes, but-

		HERB 
	Upset, you say. Grief-stricken, you say.
	Constable, you don't know what those words
	mean. My son was torn to pieces. To pieces!

HERB turns to the others in the pub. Tears stream down his
face.


	My son was torn to pieces!
		
	You come in here and talk to these men
	about private justice. You dare to do that.
	Constable Haller, why don't you go out to
	Harmony Hill and dig up what's left of Brady
	and explain to him about private justice.
	Would you want to do that?

HALLER makes no reply. He looks down at his feet.


	No. I thought not.
		
	You folks stay here if you want. I wouldn't
	ask anyone to do anything that runs counter
	to his conscience. As for me... I'm going out
	and hunt up a little private justice.

ANDY FAIRTON has swelled up again. He grins poisonously at
the slumped HALLER. He pushes off after HERB KINCAID. Other
men start to follow.




Men are streaming out, getting into station wagons and
pickup trucks. Engines roar into life. They begin backing
out even as more men come out of the pub. We even hear some
high-spirited yells; they are on their way and their blood
is up.




LESTER LOWE, looking more distressed than ever, pushes his
way through the men toward the door, and THE CAMERA FOLLOWS.
He grabs BILLY McCLAREN.


	Billy... Billy, this is a bad idea. Joe can...

		BILLY 
	Joe's had his chance, Father. Leave me be.

He pushes outside. LOWE looks around wildly; his face says
he can't believe this is happening. He grabs PORTER
ZINNEMAN, then, as PORTER shoves by him, at a couple of
others with mounting desperation.

HALLER makes his way to LOWE through the thinning crowd and
draws him aside.


	Let them go.


	But-


	This is that spirit of community you were
	talking about. Grand, ain't it? Maybe they'll
	shoot a hitchhiker or something and Andy can
	mount the head and raffle it off. To benefit
	the Medcu van, of course.

HALLER laughs.


	But can't we do anything?

OWEN KNOPFLER hurries past them; he has a rifle over one
shoulder in a sling. In his left hand he carries the
peacemaker bat.


	Sure. We can pray to Christ that none of them
	get killed.




More cars and trucks pull away. There's a big old Ford
"woody" wagon still there, with ANDY FAIRTON standing
impatiently by the driver's side door. BILLY McCLAREN and
BOBBY ROBERTSON are with him, and a big, solid-looking woman
named MAGGIE ANDREWS.

OWEN comes out and crosses to the woody.


	Well, it's about frigging time! They'll
	have his hide tacked to somebody's barn
	door before we get out there!

They pile into the car, ANDY behind the wheel. He throws it
into gear and backs out onto Main Street.




We see a parade of cars and pickup trucks headed out of
town.




He's standing on the curb and watching them leave town in
procession, some honking their horns, others yelling
cheerfully. The expression on his face is dark and brooding.







ELMER is lying on his belly, stuck halfway under a
barbed-wire fence. The seat of his pants is badly snagged.
The brothers are on the verge of a wooded area. We can see
ground mist creeping around the bottoms of the trees.


	Help me Porter, goddammit!

PORTER grabs ELMER'S right arm and pulls. There's a RIPPING
SOUND. ELMER screams.


	Don't pull me! You want to rip the right
	cheek of my ass right off?


	Well, Elmer, there are folks that'd say
	you've been half-assed most of your-


	Are you going to unhook me or be a wise guy?

PORTER begins to pick the barbed wire out of ELMER'S pants.





O'BANION looks rather amusing in his hunting gear- like that
priest from "The Exorcist" on safari.




	Jesus, that was close. Uh, pardon me, Rev'runt.


	Come on. Be careful.

They move slowly ahead, O'BANION still a bit in the lead.
THE CAMERA FOLLOWS as the reverend pushes into some
knee-high brush.

SOUND: A RUSTY METALLIC CLANG, followed by a FLESHY CHOMP.

O'BANION begins to scream and struggle.


	Rev'runt! What is it?

		O'BANION 
	My foot! My foot!

VIRGIL lunges to him and looks down.




A medium-sized trap- something in which one might reasonably
catch a wild cat or a coydog, let us say- has its rusty
teeth sunk deeply into the reverend's ankle.





	Get it off me! Get it off me!

		VIRGIL 
	Sure...okay...

He kneels down.




He muscles the trap open, a little at a time.




Relaxing.






Startled and unnerved by the HOWL, the trap slips out of his
hands and snaps shut on O'BANION'S mangled ankle again.




He screams.




It slides behind a cloud.






ANDY, BILLY McCLAREN, BOBBY ROBERTSON, OWEN KNOPFLER, and
MAGGIE ANDREWS have been joined by two other men- MR.
ASPINALL and EDGAR ROUNDS.

They have drawn close together, listening as the HOWL FADES.
We can tell by their uneasy faces that some of the joy has
gone out of the evening.

They are standing on one side of a ravine. The bottom is
filled with a still ground mist. A few bushes poke out of
it. There are woods on the far side.

		ANDY 
	It came from over there.


	As far as I could tell, it could have come
	from anywhere.


	We'll spread out in a skirmish line. If the
	bastard tries to go around us, we'll hear him.


	I dunno-


	I think Bobby Robertson here's making lemonade
	in his pants. That lemonade got ice cubes in
	it, Bobby?

ANDY FAIRTON and EDGAR ROUNDS laugh. ASPINALL and BILLY
McCLAREN smile a little.

		OWEN 
	Let off him, Maggie. I'm scared, too.

		BOBBY 
	I ain't scared! Let's go!


	Okay. Spread out on me. Five feet apart.




Reading from right to left: OWEN KNOPFLER (his gun is still
over his shoulder; it is the peacemaker baseball bat he is
holding), BOBBY ROBERTSON, ASPINALL, ANDY FAIRTON, BILLY
McCLAREN, EDGAR ROUNDS and MAGGIE ANDREWS.

They come slowly down toward THE CAMERA, alert and ready for
anything- at least, they think so.




They reach the bottom of the ravine and begin to make their
way across it. The mist is waist to chest deep. They push
toward the other side. Now they are about halfway.



They all stop, scared.

		BILLY McCLAREN
	Where's it coming from? Other side?


	No- it's behind us. I told you you couldn't
	trust-


	It isn't on either side.


	What are you-

ASPINALL is looking around, his eyes widening with fear.


	It's under the fog. It's right in with us.

The GROWLING STOPS. There's a beat of silence. Then:

SOUND: SNARLING...AND A RIPPING CHOMP as dinner is served.






He's the one screaming, and if he reminds us of O'BANION,
that's okay, because ROUNDS has also been caught in a trap.
He tries to run, stumbles, falls into the ground fog. He
goes on screaming. We can see his back for a moment, and
then it disappears.



ROUNDS SHRIEKS. His hand and arm come up like the hand of a
drowning man. Then it's gone. ROUNDS is gone.




They stand there, chest deep in mist, a conspicuous hole in
the ranks where EDGAR was.




		BOBBY 
	I can't move. Christ Jesus, I can't move!




The GROWLING STARTS AGAIN. THE CAMERA PANS SLOWLY UP THE
LINE. The mist swirls, hiding whatever's beneath.




		ASPINALL 
	I think we better start backing up, Andy.
	Real slow. Real-

The LOW GROWL rises to a snarl. And from below the mist,
snarling and bestial but understandable, mocking ASPINALL'S
voice:

		WEREWOLF 
	"Real slow! Real slow! Real slow!"



ASPINALL SHRIEKS and tries to run. He falls into the mist.
There is another CHOMP. When he flounders up, half his face
is gone.

		WEREWOLF 
	"Real slow! Real slow!"

A hairy arm rises from the mist and yanks ASPINALL down.




They panic and break for it- MAGGIE, BILLY, and ANDY for one
side, BOBBY and OWEN for the other.




THE CAMERA IS RUSHING THROUGH THE GROUND MIST- this is like
being in an airplane that's skimming the top of a cloud.

		WEREWOLF 
	"Real slow! Real slow! Real slow!"




He's hit, as an unlucky swimmer might be hit by a shark. He
whirls around, raising the peacemaker bat.


	Come on, then! You want to rock and roll
	with me?




For a moment there's nothing- and then the werewolf rises
out of it, eyes glaring green, muzzle and pelt slimed with
gore.







		MAGGIE 
	Look at it! Holy God, Andy, look at that thing!

		ANDY 
	I don't want to look at it.

He runs, while MAGGIE stares, mesmerized, at:




The WEREWOLF closes in on OWEN, who belts it a good one with
the peacemaker. The WEREWOLF swipes at him. OWEN ducks and
slams it again. The WEREWOLF roars with anger.


	Come on, come on! You want to do the bop?
	I'll bop you, motherfucker! Come on!

The WEREWOLF dives under the ground mist.

Uncertain, OWEN begins to back up, holding the bat in his
hands. OWEN is jerked down into the mist. He SCREAMS. The
peacemaker rises out of the ground mist and comes down.
Bonk! The WEREWOLF roars in pain. CHOMPING SOUND. OWEN
shrieks.

		OWEN 
	Come on, you bastard!

The peacemaker rises out of the mist again. The hands
holding it are bloody. Blood runs down the bat. It descends.
Bonk! The WEREWOLF roars again. There is a GURGLING SCREAM
from OWEN... and then a curious SPLINTERING SOUND as the
WEREWOLF sinks its fangs into the bat.




THE CAMERA MOVES ABOVE as the WEREWOLF moves below, escaping
down the draw.

Pause. SOUND, IN THE B.G.- low but slowly getting louder: a
congregation singing "Bringing In the Sheaves" to the
accompaniment of a pipe organ.

		WEREWOLF 
	Bringing in the sheaves... bringing in the
	sheaves... we shall come rejoicing... bringing
	in the sheaves...

THE WEREWOLF FADES OUT; human voices singing the same hymn
overwhelm it and we






It's an almost exact reprise of #167. Most of the mourners
are crying; MRS. BOWIE playing the organ; MARTY'S chair
parked at the back. We can see UNCLE AL, MARTY, TAMMY, and
MRS. STURMFULLER, exactly as they were at BRADY KINCAID'S
funeral; in fact, this seems to be an instant reply of that
event. One difference: we can't see BRADY'S coffin. It's
below us. The hymn ends.





	Mr. and Mrs. Kincaid have asked that there
	be no mass said here this afternoon. They
	did ask me to say a word of comfort to you
	if I could.




He sits in the first pew. In his grief he looks dead.


	There is no comfort, Father. Only private
	justice.




He's thrown off his stride. Beginning to sweat. He's like an
actor trying to remember his lines.


	Uh, if there's any word of comfort I can
	give you, it's just this: the face of the
	beast always becomes known; the time-

He looks down. His eyes widen in fear.




Yes, that's coffins- plural. Where BRADY'S coffin was
formerly, there are now six coffins, smothered with flowers.




He is badly scared now; sweat is dripping off him.


	The time... the time of the beast always
	passes. There are answers... ways... ways
	to... to cope... if we turn to each other...

		HERB 
	Father-

LOWE looks toward:




He's looking down at something in his hands. Now he looks up
and we see his face has become bestial. His eyes are green.
As we look at him, the transformation cotinues. He's turning
into a werewolf.

		HERB 
	It tore out his heart.

And sure enough, HERB KINCAID holds BRADY'S dripping heart
up in what were hands but which are now rapidly becoming
paws.




He staggers back, in terror.

		LOWE 
	No!




MRS. BOWIE begins bringing in a few more sheaves on the
church organ, and the congregation begins to sing.


	Sowing in the morning/sowing seeds of
	kindness/sowing in the noontide/and the
	dewy eve...

We pan their faces, stopping on JOE HALLER. Now something is
happening to JOE'S face. It is bulging, changing. He looks
up from his hymnal and his eyes glare green. The pupils are
split. He grins, showing big teeth.

They are all changing. Among the things we see are:

PETE SYLVESTER, who is a church deacon, rushing down the
aisle, changing, snarling. He grabs ANDY FAIRTON and the two
of them grapple in the aisle.

A YOUNG WOMAN with a baby in her arms turns back the blanket
covering the baby's face and we see it's a wolfling; already
the YOUNG WOMAN'S own hands are turning into claws.

TAMMY STURMFULLER changing; PELTZER the druggist changing;
the ZINNEMAN BROTHERS changing.

At the organ, MRS. BOWIE is now a werewolf clad in tatters
of a silk bombazine dress; she/it is still wearing a veiled
hat on her head, and she is beating the shit out of the
organ keys with her clawed hands. She sounds like Jerry Lee
Lewis after swallowing about a dozen bennies. And now the
tune changes from the remnants of "Bringing In The Sheaves."
It changes into the Rheingold jingle.

		CONGREGATION 
	My beer is Rheingold the dry beer...
	Think of Rheingold whenever you buy beer...




FATHER LOWE goes stumbling backward, dropping his hymnal.
The man is in an extremity of terror.


	No! No! No!




Some are tearing their hymnals apart and throwing them at
each other. One guy- BILLY McCLAREN, maybe- wings one of
them through a stained-glass window. Some of the werewolves-
for they are all werewolves now- fight or make love in the
aisles. The rest sway back and forth, grinning ferociously,
singing.

		CONGREGATION 
	It's not bitter, not sweet, it's a real
	frosty treat...




He looks toward:




She grins ferociously up at him, playing the Rheingold
jingle on the pipe organ with her claws. Now blood begins to
bubble up between the keys.


	Won't you try, won't you buy...




The church is a wild shambles of lurching, fighting, singing
werewolves. It's like a New Year's Eve party in hell.

		CONGREGATION 
	...Rheiinngold beer!

Suddenly a clawed hand burts up through one of the coffins.
And ANDY FAIRTON, who now looks as wolflike as any of them,
bites the hand's claw off.




He's seen all he can stand. He whirls for the back, where
there is a small door. He pulls it open... and a BRADY
KINCAID werewolf, half torn apart but still somehow alive (a
zombie werewolf, if you can dig it- George Romero would like
it, I think) leaps out and seizes LOWE.

BRADY buries his muzzle in LOWE'S NECK.




He sits up into THE CAMERA and SCREAMS. Sweat is running
down his face. He stares at us for a moment, his eyes buggy
and crazed... and then he closes them. There is an
expression of huge relief on his face as he does so.

		LOWE 
	Let it end, dear Lord. Let it end. Please
	let it end.




An old sedan cruises slowly down the street. ANNE and TAMMY
STURMFULLER are in the front seat. It's piled high with
possessions and is towing a jackleg trailer with more stuff
in it.




		HALLER 
	Anne Sturmfuller and her little girl.


	Yeah... but what are they doing?


	Putting on my Sherlock Holmes deerstalker
	cap, I deduce that they are leaving.




They are headed out of town all right, but the thing which
perhaps strikes us the most forcibly is how empty this place
is now. Main Street looks like a ghost town.





	She's not the only one. Lot of people
	leaving town. And I guess if we want a
	beer, we'll have to drink it at home.

He nods toward:




A CLOSED sign hangs in the door; above it is a big black
wreath.





	Joe, what's wrong with you? I ain't
	never seen you like this.

		HALLER 
	I lost my guts.

		PETE 
	Bullshit.


	It was the Kincaid boy. I looked at him...
	and I felt it happen. It was no big deal.
	No worse than pissing down your own leg.
	You ever do that? Maybe when you were
	real scared?

PETE, distressed, does not respond.


	One minute I had me some guts- as much as
	the next man, anyhow- and then, poof. Gone.

PETE'S looking at him in a kind of terror.


	Joe... you are going to feel better than
	this. This... this feeling of yours...
	it's gonna pass...


	Is it?

He walks away, back toward the Municipal Building (the sign
out front reminds folks to SUPPORT THE MEDCU VAN!) while
PETE looks after him, very deeply troubled.




It's deserted. Rides stand still. The midway is deserted.

THE CAMERA PANS slowly to a sign which reads TARKER'S MILLS
FAIRGROUNDS GALA FAIR OCTOBER 1 FIREWORKS AT DUSK 10c ON


A cheerful enough sign, except for the strip of paper glued
diagonally across it: FIREWORKS CANCELED.
		MARTY 
	It's not fair.




It's parked across the road from the sign.

		JANE 
	Look out, world! Marty the Great didn't
	get something he wanted!

They are distributed just as they were when they arrived at
this same fairgrounds earlier. All of them have ice cream
cones; they are coming home from a family outing.


	Stop it, Jane.


	Well, I don't see why everybody just about
	breaks down and cries whenever he-


	Stop it, your mother said.

They've just paused for a quick look at the sign; now BOB
pulls out onto the road again and heads toward home.




JANE sticks her tongue out at him. MARTY looks away.




UNCLE AL'S sports car is parked in the driveway. We hear the
CLANG of a wrench on the cement inside.




UNCLE AL and MARTY are working on the engine of the Silver
Bullet. UNCLE AL has a six-pack of beer that he's working
through. He and MARTY sit on the floor. As they talk, UNCLE
AL unscrews the last bolt holding the Bullet's carburetor
and pulls it off.


	It isn't enough that the monster killed all
	those people- that he killed Brady. Now he's
	got them to cancel the fair.


	And the fireworks. Hand me that box, Marty.

MARTY hands him a medium-sized carton with the words "Speed
Shop" printed on it.


	Yeah, okay, the fireworks. Jane thinks that's
	all I'm mad about, but it's not. Them doing
	that is just a... a...


	It's just an outward symbol of everything
	that's inwardly wrong in this town. Not
	bad, huh? I read Sherwood Anderson in
	college. I can jive that shit all day.


	Well... I like it that you always know how
	to say things, Uncle Al.


	I'll give you the telephone numbers of my
	ex-wives, dear boy- they'll be interested
	to hear that.


	Don't call me dear boy.


	But you are, you know- you are my dear boy.

He gives MARTY a kiss and smiles at him. MARTY smiles back.


	Look at this.

He pulls out a brand-new carburetor- it's a chrome-plated
four-barrel.

		UNCLE AL 
	This is gonna turn your wheelchair into
	a fucking F-14, Marty-

He looks around quickly, guiltily.


	Your mom's not around, is she?


	She and dad are out back lighting the
	barbecue. Jane's walking around like she's
	King Shit of Turd Mountain. Like always.


	Uh-huh. Only in her case I guess it would be
	Queen Shit of Turd Mountain. Hand me that
	adjustable.

MARTY does. UNCLE AL slides the carb onto the gasket and
starts attaching bolts.


	The guy killed your best friend, drove your
	girl out of town, and stole the second-best
	holiday in the year. Have I got it right?

		MARTY 
	You got it right, Uncle Al.


	Yeah, Winesburg, Ohio, was never like that...
	but I got something that just might cheer
	you up.


	What?


	Wait, dear boy. Just wait. Hand me those pliars.




He peeks into the backyard.




BOB and NAN are fussing over the barbecue. JANE is hitting a
badminton birdie.




MARTY is sitting in the Silver Bullet.

UNCLE AL comes hurrying back from his look-see.


	All is cool, Marty-boy. Go for it.

MARTY pushes the starter. The engine starts at once, but the
tone is entirely different. Before, MARTY'S wheelchair was a
poppety-popping pussycat. Now the engine rumbles like a
hood's street rod idling at a traffic light.

MARTY looks startled.

		UNCLE AL 
	Gun it.

MARTY guns it. The engine roars.


	Jesus! Not too much!

		MARTY 
	Wow.


	You got a pilot's license, Marty?


	Do I need one?


	We're gonna find out. Take it down the
	road a ways and back. Be careful.

MARTY puts the Bullet in gear and pulls away.




CAMERA TRACKS HIM up the road. He goes slowly at first, but
he lets it out a little after a while. He's really moving
along- thirty, maybe forty miles an hour. The wind blows the
hair off his forehead. He begins to grin. He's enjoying
this.




He drinks some beer. He's grinning, happy for MARTY.




He slows down, turns, stops. He revs the engine. VROOM!





A lot of changes back here. It looks almost like a motorcyle
engine now. That chromed-silver carb predominates.






Grinning. Looking at:




It's about a quarter of a mile away.




He winds the engine up and pops the clutch. The Silver
Bullet doesn't so much accelerate as blast off. It tilts
back on its wheels. MARTY swivels into a position like that
of an astronaut on lift-off. The Silver Bullet looks like a
motorcycle popping a wheelie. MARTY has a great big grin on
his face.




Roaring down the highway at fifty or better, blue smoke
jetting from the exhaust. MARTY is plastered back in the
seat with the footrest pointing up at an angle. He's
laughing like a lunatic.




		UNCLE AL 
	The kid's dead meat. What have I done?
		
	Put a rock in it, Marty!




He uses the hand brakes. SOUND of braking and squealing
rubber.




The Silver Bullet comes to a screeching, sluing stop near
UNCLE AL. Blue smoke drifts up from the wheels. MARTY guns
the engine once and then lets it idle.


	You gave me a heart attack, Marty. I'm
	dying. I hope you're happy, because you
	are looking at a dying man.


	It really goes fast. Thanks, Uncle Al.


	It goes fast, all right- and if your mother
	finds out just how fast, Marty, I will have
	a new job. Singing soprano with the Vienna
	Boys' Choir.


	I don't get you.


	I know you don't. But I want this to be our
	secret. You get that, don't you?


	Sure.


	Good.




The last bit of daylight is just filtering away.




The barbecue is over. BOB and JANE are putting lawn chairs
on the back porch. MARTY, NAN, and UNCLE AL are all in the
f.g.


	I've got to go, Nan- I had a wonderful time.

He kisses her cheek affectionately, and she smiles at him.


	So have I, actually... I wish it could always
	be like this.


	See me around to my car, Marty, and make sure
	I stay out of trouble at least that long.


	Okay.

He and UNCLE AL go around to the driveway. NAN looks at them
with troubled love.





	Now I said I had something for you, as
	I believe you will recall.


	Yeah! What is it?

AL unlocks the trunk of his car and brings out a paper
shopping bag. He places the bag in MARTY'S lap. MARTY opens
the bag, but it's really too dark to see inside. He reaches
in and brings out a handful of assorted fireworks- crackers,
Roman candles, twizzers, smoke bombs, etc.

An expression of sublime delight fills MARTY'S face as he
inventories these goodies.


	You're gonna have the Fourth of July in
	October, Marty. Just don't blow your head
	off.  And remember that it isn't
	just the fireworks. It's because no crazy
	shithead should be able to stop the good
	guys, if you can dig that.

		MARTY 
	I can dig it- thank you, Uncle Al! Thank you!


	Stay near the house, for Christ's sake-
	someone's killing people. I have to be out of
	my mind to be doing this, you know.


	Yeah, I know. It's great!


	One of the reasons I love you, Marty, is that
	you're almost as crazy as I am. Please don't
	set off anything that goes bang tonight, okay?
	Just bright colors. Can you tell the difference?


	Yeah... sure.


	Save this one for last.

He brings out a short rocket with stubby vanes on the end. A
fat fuse sticks out behind the head.


	What is it?


	A tracer. You'll like it.


	Thanks a million, Uncle Al!


	You're welcome a million, Marty. Stick 'em
	in the bushes for now.

MARTY motors over to the side of the garage, where there's a
line of bushes, and conceals the bag in them. UNCLE AL gets
in his car and starts it up. MARTY comes back.

		UNCLE AL 
	Have a good time, dear boy! And watch out
	for the werewolves!

He leaves. MARTY sits in his wheelchair, waving.




There's a downspout outside one of the upstairs windows. Now
the window goes up and MARTY leans out. He grasps the
downspout and begins working his way down. This should not
be too hard for us to believe; we've already seen how strong
MARTY'S arms are.

His legs dangle limply, but he's doing just fine. When he
reaches the bottom of the drainpipe, they simply crumple
under him and he uses his arms to pull himself over to the
back porch.

MARTY hoists himself over the porch rail. Here, under a
tarp, is the Silver Bullet. MARTY pushes the tarp aside and
gets in. He uses his hands on the wheels to get over the
porch ramp and rolls silently down it. At the bottom he
looks up at:




Still a light on up there.




		MARTY 
	Shit!

Thinks a bit, then starts to hand-roll the Bullet toward:




MARTY comes slowly up the path. We hear soft grunts of
exertion; he's still hand-turning the wheels for the sake of
silence, and it's hard work. He stops at the line of bushes
and gets the bag of fireworks. He puts it on his lap and
starts moving again.




The driveway has a slight downslant, and MARTY coasts easily
out to the road. He turns right and begins to roll slowly
along the verge of the highway, still using his hands. We
can see that the light is still on upstairs. MARTY turns
back once to verify this himself, then keeps on going. He's
not going to be deprived of his treat.




He decides he's far enough away to be safe. He pushes the
starter button. The engine cranks, coughs, and cranks some
more. MARTY frowns, and pulls out a wire- a rudimentary
choke, I suppose. He pushes the starter button again. It
cranks, but doesn't start.

MARTY pushes in the wire, looking concerned now, and tries
again. This time, after the engine has cranked over a few
times, it starts.

		MARTY 
	All right!

He puts it in gear and starts off.




What we see is a tiny boy in a tiny wheelchair moving along
a dark, empty ribbon of road under a vast dome of stars.

DISTANT SOUND: The Bullet's engine.




SOUND: Fast-rushing water.

The turnout is packed dirt. There's a grove of trees with
picnic tables spotted among them at the back. The sign in
the extreme f.g. reads ROADSIDE REST AREA at the top; AUGER
FALLS in the middle; TOWNSHIP OF TARKER'S MILLS at the
bottom.

SOUND: The Silver Bullet approaching.

MARTY turns in and rolls to the back of the rest area. He
stops by one of the picnic tables and dumps the bag of
fireworks out onto the picnic table and takes his time
selecting the first- he's like a wine fancier with a whole
cellar of rare bottles to choose from. At last he chooses a
twizzer. He takes matches from the pocket of his pajama top
and lights the fuse.

When it starts to fizz, MARTY tosses it high into the air.

		MARTY 
	Here's one for the good guys!




It flies in an arc over the drop.




THE CAMERA TRACKS ITS FALL onto some rocks at the edge of
the waterfall's catch pool.

SOUND: Growling.




It has been drinking from the creek. It looks more than half
human now- we would be able to recognize it for sure, but
its face is in shadow.

It turns from the creek and gets up on its hind legs.




It's guttering out. A hand-paw touches it and draws back
quickly.

SOUND: Hurt, angry growl.




He's getting ready to light one of the fountains. He pauses
and looks toward the cut. He's heard something- but the
waterfall muffles it. He lights the fountain's fuse, sets it
on the ground, and rolls the Bullet back a few feet.

The fountain bursts into a shower of light.

		MARTY 
	All right!




The waterfall is in the b.g.

The WEREWOLF is climbing the rocky slope.




It goes out.




He rolls over to the picnic table and gets a Roman candle.
He plants the stick in the ground and lights the fuse. The
Roman candle shoots into the sky.




Bursts into colored light.




It GROWLS... and shakes its fists at the fading light in the
sky.




He's holding another fountain in one hand and his matches in
the other. He's looking toward the cut and the waterfall.


	Is someone there?




It freezes, GROWLING FAINTLY.




With a little shrug, he lights the fuse on the fountain and
sets it on the ground, as before.




Claw-hands settle over the top.




It throws off fiery swirls of sparks, then begins to die
down.




He's checking out the stuff on the table for his next choice
when he hears a clear SOUND: A SNAPPING, SPLINTERING BRANCH.




It's run into a low-hanging branch. Instead of pushing it
aside or ducking under it, it simply rips it off the tree.
Although the branch is pretty big, the WEREWOLF does this as
easily as a hungry man might rip a drumstick off a
Thanksgiving turkey. It throws the branch aside and
advances, hunched over on two legs.




		MARTY 
	Who's there?




The grove is a darkened shadowland.




He punches the Bullet's starter. The motor cranks and
cranks. No go, though. MARTY pulls out the choke wire,
alternating terrified stares at the grove of trees with
terrified stares at his rudimentary dashboard.




Here it comes, out of the shadows, closing in.




Working that starter for all it's worth... but the motor
only cranks. Still no start.







He gives up on the motor. He looks toward the picnic table
where the fireworks are. He grabs up the tracer. He gets the
matches out of the breast pocket of his p.j.'s and promptly
drops them in his lap. He scrabbles for them.




We can't see its face in the dark, but it's closer... much
closer.




He tries to hold the tracer and strike a match at the same
time.
He can't; to do that he'd need at least one more hand. He
puts the tube of the tracer between his teeth and tries
again.




He strikes the match... too hard! It bends, the neck broken.

		MARTY 
	Oh, please...







He is in an extremity of terror.




He pulls a fresh match from the book and strikes it. It
lights.




It recoils- we still can't see its face except for a vague
shadow.

(NOTE: I keep emphasizing the shadowed face, because this is
not a full-moon period. I've been going on the assumption
that the guy kind of works his way up to full wolfiness,
toothiness, hairiness, etc., starting with a partial change
at about the second quarter. It's a process like the tide
coming in. Thus, if we saw MARTY'S attacker clearly at this
point, I think we would recognize him.)




He takes the tracer from his mouth and applies the match to
the fuse. It splutters alight.




The WEREWOLF is less than twenty feet away. The tracer
flares alight and shoots out of MARTY'S hand, leaving a
pink-orange trail of smoke behind it. The missile flies at
the WEREWOLF's head.




The tracer strikes it in the face, and we see a flash of
fire. The WEREWOLF screams and blunders away.




He punches the starter again. The motor cranks.




The motor coughs and fires; a big blue flame jumps from the
fancy carb... and the engine starts to run.




It's staggering away, ROARING and HOWLING. The tube of the
tracer is sticking out of its face- from its left eye, in
fact- like an Indian's arrow. The WEREWOLF smashes branches
out of its way.




He wheels the Bullet around and heads for the road, gasping
and weeping with fear.




It's blundering through the trees. It pulls the tube from
its face with an ANIMAL SCREAM and drops it.




It lies smoldering on the ground. The end is slick with
blood.




The Bullet is really wheeling. MARTY is panting, out of
breath, still deeply frightened.




We see it blundering along, holding its face; blood bubbles
through its fingers.

		WEREWOLF 
	Bastard Marty! Bastard Marty! Kill you!
	Reeeal slow!




He powers up it, and along the path to the back. Perhaps he
has enough speed to cut the engine and coast.




His bed is by the window. His hands appear on the
windowsill, and MARTY pulls himself in. He falls over onto
his bed and lies there, spent and exhausted and trembling.









He's sitting in the "house" wheelchair in the living room,
holding the phone tensely to his ear as the RINGING SOUND
goes on.

A CLICK as the phone is picked up.

		UNCLE AL 
	'Lo? Go away.


	It's a werewolf! I saw it! Last night-




Not a really spiffy place- the decor is Early American
Alcoholic. There's a mostly unclad lady asleep on one side
of the bed. UNCLE AL is sitting on the other in his
skivvies, phone to his ear. There are a lot of bottles and
heaped ashtrays around, and UNCLE AL has a big old hangover.


	You dreamed it, Marty.

		MARTY 
	No! I went out late last night- and-


	There are no such things as werewolves.
	Please, dear boy, have some pity.

He hangs up and falls back into bed.

		GIRL 
	Whowuzzit?


	Obscene phone caller. Go back to sleep.




He's sitting on the Silver Bullet, just looking at the yard.
JANE comes out.


	Marty? You okay? You've just been sitting
	here all morning.


	Where's Mom?


	Went shopping. Why?


	Jane, I have to talk to you.

		JANE 
	About what?

MARTY looks at her earnestly.


	I need you to help me. Uncle Al won't
	believe me, and if you won't help me, I...


MARTY has to stop. He's almost crying.

		JANE 
	Marty, what is it?




JANE is pushing a supermarket shopping cart with a lot of
beer and soda bottles in it. On the side is a sign reading
MEDCU BOTTLE AND CAN DRIVE- plus an outline drawing of the
Medcu unit.

		JANE 
	He told me something that was clearly
	unbelievable... and yet, somehow I
	believed most of it. And I understood
	one thing with total clarity: Marty
	himself believed it all.

She turns into a yard and pulls her cart up the walk to the
door. She mounts the steps and rings the bell.




A sheer curtain at one side of the door is pulled aside and
a fearful face- that of MRS. THAYER- looks out. Then we hear
bolts being pulled and locks- at least three of them- being
unlocked. The lady is taking no chances.


	Jane?

		JANE 
	I'm collecting returnable bottles and
	cans for the Medcu Drive, Missus Thayer-
	I just wondered if you had any.

Her husband comes up the hall.


	Who is it?


	Jane Coslaw.




What we see mostly are her eyes- bright, inquiring.


	Hi, Mr. Thayer.




What we see mostly are his brown eyes.


	Hello, Jane.





	Bring your cart around to the back, Jane-
	we'll look in the garage.


	Thank you.

She starts down the steps and we







Amazing how deserted Tarker's Mills looks. JANE is pushing
her cart. Even more bottles in it now.

		JANE 
	Uncle Al hadn't believed him, but Uncle Al
	was thirty-five that summer and I was
	fourteen... at fourteen you can still believe
	the unbelievable, although even then that
	ability is growing rusty, is preparing to
	squeal to a stop.

She is passing the Holy Family rectory. LESTER LOWE is out
front, digging in his flower garden. He is shirtless, back
to JANE and to us; his black shirt with the turned-around
collar hangs informally on a bush.

		JANE 
	Hi, Father Lowe!

		LOWE 
	Top of the morning to you, Jane Coslaw!


	I'm going to bring in a monster load
	of bottles in an hour or so!

		LOWE 
	That's great, Jane... I'll be waiting.




She stops at Robertson's Luncheonette, leaves her cart
outside, and goes in. THE CAMERA FLOATS TO THE WINDOW; we
see JANE explaining about the bottle campaign to BOBBY while
a few men seated at the counter listen.




Wide eyes, mostly.




Mostly eyes.




As she turns away, her eyes sweep the men at the counter.




Some of them- PELTZER, VIRGIL CUTTS- are familiar. Others
are not. THE CAMERA PANS THEIR FACES CLOSELY, FEATURING





She grabs the handle of the cart again and proceeds down
Main Street. She goes into the barber shop.

		JANE 
	Marty had seen where the tracer had
	struck home, he said, and I went out
	that day doing more than just looking
	for returnable cans and bottles- I was
	looking for a man- or woman- with only
	one eye.




As JANE enters, BILLY McCLAREN is giving one man a trim.
Another man is tipped back with his face wrapped in a towel.
Two or three other townies are waiting on tonsorial
beautification, reading magazines. None, of course, has only
one eye. JANE checks them all out carefully.


	I know what you're after, Jane, and you're
	out of luck. Little Toby Whittislaw was in
	yesterday, and I gave 'em all to him.


	Oh... okay.

But her eyes have fixed on the towel over the face of the
man in the other barber chair. She walks over to him.





	That you, Mr. Fairton?

		ANDY FAIRTON 
	No- it's Ronald McDonald. I came in for
	a shave and a burger.

The men laugh. JANE smiles politely. And pulls the hot towel
away from his eyes. His two eyes.

		JANE 
	Got any bottles, Mr. Fairton?


	No!

		JANE 
	Oh... okay.

She puts the towel back and THE CAMERA FOLLOWS as she
returns to the door.


	'Bye, Mr. McClaren.

		BILLY 
	'Bye, Jane.

		ANDY 
	Jesus!

JANE goes out.




She pushes the shopping cart up to the gate, opens it, and
goes up the walk to the foot of LOWE'S porch steps. She
leaves it there and climbs to the porch.




The screen door is shut, the inner wooden door open.




Dark and empty. SOUNDS in the kitchen. EATING SOUNDS, maybe-
or maybe we can't tell.




She knocks on the screen door.


	Father Lowe! I'm ready to turn in my
	bottles and cans!




LOWE is standing by the refrigerator door. He's holding a
raw leg of lamb and tearing at it with his teeth. Lamb blood
smears his face and runs down his arms. He is as human as
you or me ,
but when JANE speaks, his head snaps up and his eye flares-
his one eye. The other is covered by a patch.

		JANE 
	Father?


	Take your cart around to the garage
	and unload, Jane! Then bring me your
	tally sheet!





	Okay!




She goes down the steps and starts to push the cart around
the house.




He crosses to the window over the kitchen sink, the bloody
chunk of meat still in his hands, and looks out.




She pushes the cart along a path toward a combination garage
and utility shed at the back.




Still watching JANE, he begins to gnaw ravenously at the
meat again.




She opens the door and slowly pushes her cart inside.




This is a creepy little place, now filled with bottles and
cans that have been crammed in helter-skelter, every which
way. JANE obviously doesn't like it. She begins to unload
her cart rapidly, mumbling numbers to herself.



JANE looks down.




A good-sized mouse comes out from between a pile of stacked
bottles and runs across JANE'S shoe.




She utters a litle scream and shrinks back against the wall,
bumping it quite hard. Hard enough to knock something off an
overhead shelf. It falls into the bottles, SHATTERING
several. JANE screams again- not terribly loud- and then
slowly bends toward the object and picks it up.

JANE holds it, both puzzled and scared.




JANE approaches it, holding a piece of paper in her hand-
her tally sheet. She knocks. Waits. There is no answer. She
knocks again. Waits. No answer. She tries the door. It
opens.


	Father Lowe?

No answer. After a moment of interior debate, JANE enters
the kitchen.




She looks around. No one here. But there is a bloody spot on
the counter- LOWE must have set his grisly luncheon down
here for a moment. She walks slowly across the kitchen and
into the dark hall.


	Father Lowe?... I've got my tally sheet...

Farther into the hall. A hand drops onto her shoulder.

		LOWE 
	Very good, Jane!

She jumps, and so do we. She turns around and looks up at:




Featuring his eyes- his eye, rather. The left is covered
with a black eye-patch.

		LOWE 
	Good, Jane. Very... very good.

He holds his hand out, and JANE puts the tally sheet in it
like one in a dream. She can't take her eyes off that black
patch, which tells her everything.




		LOWE 
	Jane! You're trembling!


	I... I don't feel so well, I guess
	maybe I got too much sun.


	Would you like to come in the parlor and
	lie down for a bit? Or have a cold drink?
	I have some soda-


	No!  That is, I have to get home
	and help my mom with lunch.


	I'll give you a ride!

JANE is retreating down the hall toward the front door.


	No- she... she was going to meet me at the
	market. I'll be fine.




How much does he know? How much has he guessed? Hard to tell
from his face, which now seems sinister, with its eye-patch.


	Give my best to your brother, Jane.





	I will.

She bolts.




CAMERA HOLDS ON HIM, standing silent and enigmatic.

		LOWE 
	Real slow.




His eyes are wide. He's leaning forward in his wheelchair.

		MARTY 
	Oh, Jeez! What did you do then?




She's changed into shorts and a blouse.


	I ran faster than I ever ran in my life-
	what do you think, dummox? By the time I
	got back here, I really thought I was
	going to faint.  What are we going
	to do, Marty? If we tried to tell anybody-
	grown-ups, I mean- they'd laugh. What are
	we going to do?

		MARTY 
	I think I know.




A hand- MARTY'S- comes into the frame and prints: I KNOW WHO





He's sitting at his desk, a pool of light from the lamp
focused on the sheet of paper before him. He thinks a
moment, then begins to write again.




He is adding: WHY DON'T YOU KILL YOURSELF?




He studies this for a second, and seems satisfied. He opens
a drawer, brings out an envelope, and folds his letter into
it.




She has the letter in her hand. She approaches the mailbox,
opens the mailbox door, and then glances at the envelope
again.




Addressed in pencil, it says: FATHER LESTER LOWE/HOLY FAMILY





She drops the letter in with the air of a girl lighting the
fuse on a packet of high explosives. She turns away toward
home.




He's standing at the window and looking out. The torn-open
envelope is on an end table beside him. He's holding the
lined sheet of paper in his hand. An expression of bitter
hate twists his features, and he slowly crumples the paper
in his fist.




She drops in another letter and walks away.

		JANE 
	I mailed another letter for Marty the
	next day... a third the day after that.
	Then, on Saturday...




Parked at the curb is UNCLE AL'S sports car.

		JANE 
	...we told Uncle Al what we'd been up to.
	 His reaction was less than serene.





	Holy-jumped-up-baldheaded-Jesus-CHRIST!


	Uncle Al-

		UNCLE AL 
	From him I'd expect it. I sometimes think
	his common sense got paralyzed along with
	his legs. But you, Jane! You! Little
	Polly Practical!

		JANE 
	You don't understand.

		UNCLE AL 
	Oh, I understand plenty! I understand that
	my niece and nephew are sending the local
	Catholic priest little love notes suggesting
	that he gargle with a broken light bulb or
	eat a rat-poison omelet!


	It came for me! I shot it in the eye! Now he's
	wearing an eye-patch!


	I called Peltzer on my way over here,
	Marty! Father Lowe came into the drugstore
	two days ago for a bottle of otic solution.
	That's a fancy way of saying eyewash. He's
	got a corneal inflammation.


	Was it a prescription?


	What the hell does that matter?


	It wasn't- I'll bet you it wasn't. Because
	to get a prescription he'd have to see a
	doctor.


	Marty, Marty, you should hear yourself!


	Well... was it a prescription?


	I don't know. But I know you didn't see
	any werewolf the other night, Marty. You
	had a dream, that's all. An extremely
	realistic nightmare brought on by what's
	been happening in this town.


	What about the baseball bat Jane saw in
	his shed? You know who used to have a
	baseball bat like that? Mr. Knopfler! He
	was so proud of it he used to carry it in
	the Fourth of July parade! Jane said it
	looked like the Green Giant used it for
	a toothpick!


	You want to know what I think?


	No- we just got you out here so we could
	admire your pretty face.


	Watch it, dear boy. I think it was a
	hallucination. Probably a broomstick, or
	something.

		JANE 
	It was not! You want me to show you! Come
	on! I'm not afraid! I'll show you right now!


	No thank you, Jane. I'm a little old for
	palying the Hardy Boys Meet the Catholic
	Werewolf.

JANE stamps her foot, furious with UNCLE AL.


	Never mind, Jane. He'll have gotten rid of
	it by now anyway.




The Silver Bullet stands outside. The door opens and UNCLE
AL, JANE, and MARTY come out. UNCLE AL is carrying MARTY
piggyback. MARTY has an ice cream cone. JANE is holding two.

UNCLE AL squats, depositing MARTY in the Bullet. MARTY
starts the engine as JANE hands UNCLE AL his ice cream cone.
The three of them start up the street and THE CAMERA TRACKS



	If Father Lowe is an innocent little lamb,
	why hasn't he picked up the telephone and
	called Constable Haller to tell him Marty's
	sending poison-pen letters?


	I don't accept the idea that he knows who his
	letter writer is, Jane. Because I don't accept
	the idea that there was a big bad wolf who saw
	Marty in his wheelchair.


	Why hasn't he picked up the phone and told
	Constable Haller that someone is sending
	him poison-pen letters?

UNCLE AL stops. He hasn't thought of this. He looks toward:




LESTER LOWE is mowing the lawn, eye-patch and all.




		UNCLE AL 
	Well... he probably did. I mean, he could
	make a complaint without taking an ad out
	in the paper, couldn't he?


	I'll bet you a quarter that eyewash stuff
	was nonprescription. And I'll bet you
	another quarter he hasn't said anything
	to Mr. Haller.


	Marty, do you see your suspect?




Keeps on moving. MR. ASPINALL drives by and waves. LOWE
waves back.




		MARTY 
	Yes, I see him.


	Do you really think that a man who took
	a rocket in the eye three nights ago
	could be out mowing his lawn? He'd either
	be in the hospital... or dead.


	I didn't shoot him when he was a man. I shot
	him when he was-


	When he was a werewolf. Yes. Right. Jesus.
	Jane, you don't really believe this madness,
	do you?


	I don't know exactly what I believe. But I
	know that what I saw was a baseball bat and
	not a broomstick. I know there was something
	strange about the way the house smelled that
	day. It smelled like an animal's den. And I
	believe in Marty. I mean- there are times
	when he makes me so mad I could kill him, but
	I still believe in him.  You used to
	believe in him, too, Uncle Al.

UNCLE AL looks momentarily ashamed of himself. Then he
throws his hands up in disgust.


	Kids!

He walks ahead of them. MARTY bats his eyes sweetly at JANE.

She walks on, miffed. MARTY gooses the Silver Bullet to
catch up.




It's midafternoon. A bunch of kids are playing baseball. In
the extreme f.g. we see one small boy- MARTY- sitting back
to us in his wheelchair, watching.




It draws slowly along a tree-lined lane and stops. LESTER
LOWE is behind the wheel.











		LOWE 
	Little bastard.







The field team heads in. Kids start streaming back toward
town.




The OUTFIELDER who caught the fly trots past, and glances
his way.


	You comin' down to Robertson's for a
	soda, Marty?


	No- I guess I'll go home.

I think that here we are seeing a rare moment of depression
in MARTY- they can run and play ball. He can't.


	Okay- seeya!


	Yeah... seeya.

He fires up the Bullet and starts away alone.




He starts it up.




He bumps up a grassy slope to a tarred road. The last of the
other kids are headed back the other way. MARTY is alone.




It turns out of the lane where it was parked and onto the
road.




MARTY'S back is to us. The wheelchair draws rapidly closer
to THE CAMERA as LOWE bears down on it.




He leans over the wheel, grinning sadistically.

		LOWE 
	Bastard.




He's daydreaming his way along- maybe, inside his head, he's
playing center field for the Dodgers.

SOUND: Winding roar of a car engine. MARTY turns around.







MARTY opens the throttle wide and the Bullet swerves across
the road. The coupe's bumper actually clips it on the way
by, jolting MARTY and almost overturning the Bullet.

LOWE'S coupe veers over the embankment and partway down into
the ditch.





	Oh, you bastard!

He floors the engine.




Spinning helplessly in the dirt.




He speeds past the coupe, and thumbs his nose.




He's in a teeth-grinding fury. He jams the gear-shift lever
into reverse and floors the gas pedal again.




It roars backward in a cloud of ditch dust and bounces onto
the road. Then it screams out after the rapidly disappearing
Silver Bullet.




He hears the GROWLING SOUND of LESTER LOWE'S coupe. He looks
behind.




Roars toward THE CAMERA.




He twists the throttle and the Silver Bullet responds.




The director will shoot it as he likes- the basis is simple:
LOWE is chasing MARTY's hopped-up wheelchair along a country
road at speeds approaching fifty MPH. MARTY should have a
couple of near misses, and perhaps we could actually have
him pass one car. At one point we should have a REVERSE
ANGLE on LESTER LOWE'S coupe, featuring two bumper stickers:
ATTEND AND SUPPORT YOUR LOCAL CHURCH and HONK IF YOU LOVE


As the chase goes on it becomes apparent that LOWE is
gaining. MARTY looks increasingly desperate. And now he
looks down at:




The needle is all the way over on "E."




He groans. SOUND of the coupe's engine GROWS LOUDER.




LOWE charges, rapidly closing the distance. MARTY swerves
from one side of the road to the other, escaping LOWE for
the moment but almost overturning in the process.

They are now running beside a river- the Auger River, in
fact.




Now the needle is actually past "E."





	Come on, baby... come on...

His face registers hope as he sees:










He twists the throttle as far as it will turn- he's going
for broke. The coupe chases him- and now the Silver Bullet's
motor COUGHS.




It's pretty ramshackle. A big orange sign beside it reads:





MARTY brakes, hits the shoulder of the road, and somehow
makes the turn. We see him holding on for dear life as the
Silver Bullet bounces and jounces down the dirt road to the
mouth of the covered bridge.




It overshoots the right turn MARTY just took, screeches to a
halt, backs up, and turns onto the lane.




It bounces up the incline to the bridge, MOTOR COUGHING AND





It comes to a sliding, dirt-digging stop.




His face is so full of frustrated hate that it has become
the face of a gargoyle.







It's dim and spooky in here. Cracks between the boards of
the side walls allow dusty fingers of daylight to shine
through. More light rays up from the cracks in the floor.
The floorboards are warped and uneven; MARTY'S wheelchair
sways drunkenly from side to side. The total inside passage
is about seventy feet.

About halfway across, the Silver Bullet coughs its last
cough and splutters its last splutter. It rolls along
silently, going on its dying momentum.




Drawing closer. We hear the SOUNDS of boards rumbling under
the Silver Bullet's tires and the Auger River beneath.




Rolling ever more slowly, the Silver Bullet approaches THE
CAMERA... and stops. MARTY is covered with sweat. His hair
is in a wild tangle. He's panting. He looks at:




This is an extremely rustic lane. Pretty, but hardly the
sort of place in which one would want to find oneself when
one has a part-time werewolf and a full-time homicidal
maniac close behind.




		LOWE 
	Marty...

MARTY'S head whips around.




We see a brilliant square of light. In it stands LOWE'S
silhouette. The silhouette begins to move. SOUND of
footfalls on the loose floorboards of the covered bridge.




Sensible black Oxfords.


	I'm very sorry about this. I don't know if
	you believe that or not, but it's true. I
	would never willingly hurt a child. You
	should have left me alone, Marty.

SOUND of footfalls resumes.




He's nearly paralyzed with terror- even if he wasn't, he
wouldn't get far in a powerless Silver Bullet.




		LOWE 
	I can't kill myself, Marty. You see, our
	religion teaches that suicide is the
	greatest sin a man or a woman can commit.
	Stella Randolph was going to commit suicide;
	if she had done so, she would be burning in
	hell right now. By killing her I took her
	physical life but saved her life eternal.
	You see, Marty? You see how all things serve
	the will and the mind of God? You see, you
	meddling little shit!

He begins to walk forward again.




He's halfway across the bridge now, walking slowly, not
hurrying.


	You're going to have a terrible accident,
	Marty. You're going to fall into the river.

SOUND: TRACTOR ENGINE. LOWE stops, alert to possible danger.






MARTY'S face fills with hope. He looks from LOWE toward:




THE TRACTOR SOUND gets louder still, and here comes ELMER
ZINNEMAN on a John Deere. The tractor is hauling a manure
spreader which is mostly empty.




		MARTY 
	Mr. Zinneman! Mr. Zinneman!




He draws back a little, and his face is sharp with animal
cunning- inside his head he's running a four-minute mile.
Stay and try to bluff it out, or beat it?




ELMER draws the tractor up close to MARTY and swings it
around. MARTY looks back at:




Empty.






MARTY looks back at ELMER.


	I ran out of gas.


	Spooky in there, ennit?

		MARTY 
	It sure is!

He looks back once more toward:




Brooding, shadowy. CAMERA HOLDS AND WE







MARTY is talking to UNCLE AL. JANE is behind them, knocking
croquet balls through the wickets on the back lawn.

MARTY is looking at his Uncle anxiously as JANE strolls
over.


	Well... it's a lot easier to swallow
	without the hair and the foaming jaws.
	Also, I checked on the otic solution.
	It was counter brand. No prescription
	needed.


	I told you!


	Shut up, dear boy- no gloating allowed.

		JANE 
	Did you talk to the constable?


	After Marty called me with his latest
	Thrilling Tale of Wonder, I did. 
	He's had no poison-pen complaints lodged
	at all.


	I told you!


	Shut up, Marty.

		UNCLE AL 
	There's something else.


What is it?					What other thing?


	I probably shouldn't tell you- you're
	both hysterical on the subject. I'm
	starting to feel like a guy handing
	out free Arthur Murray coupons to
	victims of the dancing sickness.


	Uncle Al, if you don't tell me-

He makes strangling gestures.

		UNCLE AL 
	I went out to that rest area.

		MARTY 
	You found the tracer?


	No... but I found some blood, smeared on
	a tree trunk in that grove.


	There! You see!


	It could have been anything, Marty.


	What about Father Lowe chasing me in his
	car and trying to run me down? You don't
	think that was a dream, do you?


	No.

UNCLE AL comes over to JANE'S side of the Silver Bullet. He
looks down at:




There's a scrape and a dent where LOWE'S coupe dented it.
There is also a fleck of paint.





	Lowe's car-?


	Blue. This blue.


	Jesus.




Three-quarters full.

THE CAMERA PANS DOWN to the Tarker's Mills town hall. UNCLE
AL'S sports car is parked out front.




HALLER is behind his desk, rocked back in his chair, hands
laced together behind his head. He's looking at UNCLE AL.
There's a silence that draws out for quite some time. In it,
UNCLE AL becomes steadily more uncomfortable.


	That's just about the craziest damn story
	I've ever heard, Al.


	I know. I could have edited out all of the
	completely crazy stuff, but I thought you
	deserved to hear it with the bark on.


	I appreciate that. Now, the next question:
	Do you believe any of this? You do, don't you?


	Let's just say I believe Lester Lowe should
	be checked out.

HALLER rises.


	That can be arranged.

They shake hands.




A Chevrolet with TARKER'S MILLS CONSTABLE painted on the
side in gold leaf pulls up. JOE HALLER gets out, and as he
does there's a business of pulling his pants legs down over
his boots- nice stitched cowboy boots, not black cop's
shoes. We want the audience to notice these boots, remember
them- probably HALLER should wear them all through the
picture. He goes up the walk.

HALLER rings the doorbell.

No one comes. HALLER rings the bell again. Waits. No one
comes. He leans down and looks through a side window.




No one there.




He goes down the steps, stands on the path for a moment, and
then goes over to the shed-garage. He opens the door and
looks in.




LOWE'S coupe is in there. There's just room for it amid the
shadowy piles of bottles and cans.




He goes around to the front of LOWE'S coupe and squats down.
In the b.g.: a heaped mountain of aluminum beer and soda
cans.

HALLER feels in his breast pocket and brings out a Zippo. He
lights it and looks at:




One of the turn-signal lamps is broken. There's a scratch in
the paint and a dent in the bumper. HALLER'S fingers come
into the frame and touch the scratch. They stop, and THE
CAMERA ZOOMS IN to a small streak of silvery paint. As MARTY
has a scrape of blue car paint on his wheelchair, so does
LOWE have a scrape of silver wheelchair paint on his car.




His eyes widen.

SOUND: SHATTERING ROAR and the CLINK AND TUMBLE of about
nine thousand cans as LOWE erupts from under the aluminum
scrap heap behind HALLER. He is a mixture of man and
werewolf, and quite clearly a beastial version of LOWE. In
one hand he holds the remains of OWEN KNOPFLER'S peacemaker.

HALLER starts to turn; LOWE strikes him with the bat. CAMERA
CLOSES IN ON LOWE as the bat rises and falls... rises and
falls. We can't see HALLER, and that is probably a mercy,
but we can hear the THUD of the bat as it strikes again and
again and again.





UNCLE AL has taken the Coslaw family station wagon today.
The three of them are sitting in the grove of trees.


	Mr. Haller said he'd check him out, and
	guess what? No one sees him again!


	And what do you suggest I do about it,
	dear boy?

MARTY slips off his St. Christopher's medallion and hands it
to UNCLE AL.


	I want you to turn this into a silver
	bullet.


	You're not going to let it go, are you?


	I saw what I saw.


	Marty, the moon wasn't even full!

		JANE 
	In the made-up stories, the guy who's the
	werewolf only changes when the moon is full.
	But maybe he's really that way almost all
	the time, only as the moon gets fuller...

		MARTY 
	...the guy gets wolfier.

		JANE 
	Here. Take mine, too.


	Jane... you don't have to do that.


	Don't tell me what I have to do and what I
	don't, booger-brains.


	Will you marry me, Jane?


	Would you kids mind telling me how this guy
	Lowe became a werewolf to begin with?


	I don't know. Maybe he doesn't know, either.


	No one knows how cancer begins, either- or
	exactly what it is- but people still
	believe in it.


	The kid is eleven years old and already
	he sounds like a Jesuit. A French Jesuit.


	I think he's going to come for me. Not
	just because I know who he is, but
	because I hurt him. Only I don't think
	he'll try again as Lowe.


	Dear boy, you have gone right out of
	your mind.


	Will you do it?

UNCLE AL only looks at him, confused and unsure.




UNCLE AL is taking the kids home- THE CAMERA TRACKS the
wagon for a moment, and then we are looking up the short
lane and into a gravel pit.

THE CAMERA ZOOMS IN, FAST, on the sandy rear wall. We can
see one cowboy boot sticking out of a wall of sand. It's
bloody and chewed.




The wagon pulls in.





	Please, Uncle Al.


	Will you?

The St. Cristopher's medal and the crucifix are hanging from
the rearview on a fine silver chain. UNCLE AL takes down the
medal and looks at it.


	All right. I give up. Yes.


All right! Thanks!				Thank you, Uncle Al!


	If either of you ever tells anyone I even
	bought a piece of this story, werewolves
	will be the least of your problems.




a.) UNCLE AL pulls up to a city store front with a sign
reading MAC'S GUNS AND AMMO. He takes out the St.
Cristopher's medal, looks at it, and shakes his head, as if
still ruing his own credulity and stupidity. He goes inside.

		JANE 
	Uncle Al's friend Mac was more than a
	gunsmith; he was, Uncle Al said, an
	old-world craftsman, a sort of wizard
	of weapons.

b.) In the gun shop interior, we see UNCLE AL talking to
MAC, who really should look like an elderly white wizard- a
kind of Gandalf figure. In the b.g. window we see a paper
skeleton and paper jack-o'-lanterns: our first clue that All
Hallow's Eve is nearing. UNCLE AL is speaking animatedly,
using his hands a lot; we don't know exactly what the tale
is, but it must be a whopper. In the course of it, he hands
the medal and the crucifix to MAC, who tents the silver
chains over his fingers and looks at them.

		JANE 
	God knows what sort of story my uncle
	told him, but I think that for men who
	have been married as often as Uncle Al,
	invention on short notice becomes
	something of a specialty.

c.) In his workroom, we see MAC spilling boron over the
medal and looking closely at the stain.

		JANE 
	The gunsmith confirmed the high-grade
	silver content of my crucifix and Marty's
	medallion...

d.) In a dim shot which makes MAC look more like a sorcerer
than ever, we see him light an acetylene torch and begin
melting the medal and the crucifix in the crucible. THE
CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY IN as JANE'S contribution and MARTY'S
melt together; they are becoming on and indissoluble.

		JANE 
	...melted them down...

e.) We see MAC pouring molten silver into a bullet mold.

		JANE 
	...and molded them into a silver bullet.




MAC comes out of the back with a small inlaid wooden box. He
puts it down on the glass counter top.


	Here it is.




MAC'S hands open it, disclosing a single bullet resting on
dark velvet plush. It is a .22 short round, and it gleams a
pure silver. It would be great to hype this bullet
optically- not much, just a little- to make it look
absolutely magical. Almost holy.




UNCLE AL picks up the bullet almost reverently, holds it to
the light.


	Nicest piece of work I ever did, I think.
	It's got a low-grain load so it won't
	tumble. Should be pretty accurate.


	It's just a gag, that's all. What would
	you shoot a silver .22 bullet at, anyway?

		MAC 
	How about a werewolf?  Happy
	Halloween, Al.




It nearly fills the screen, swimming mysteriously in the
warm summer air.

		JANE 
	By the time Marty's silver bullet was done,
	it was Halloween... and the full moon had
	come around again. Earlier that afternoon,
	my grandfather, who had been dying of cancer
	for over seven years, finally finished the job.

THE CAMERA PANS DOWN to the COSLAW house. There's a carved
jack in the window and a corsage of Indian corn on the door.
UNCLE AL'S MG is in the driveway. The COSLAW station wagon
is just backing out. UNCLE AL and JANE stand in the doorway;
MARTY is slightly behind them in the Silver Bullet.

NAN leans out of the car. She's wearing black, and she has
obviously been crying.


	Remember, Al... we'll be at the Ritz-Carlton
	in Boston tomorrow night! Or at the funeral
	parlor. It's Stickney and-


	-and Babcock, I remember. Now go on!

The station wagon backs farther and NAN leans out again.


	And don't open the door for any trick or
	treaters even if they come!


	We won't!

The station wagon backs out into the road and NAN pops out
again.


	You kids go to bed on time! You've got
	school tomorrow!


	If you keep doing that, you're going to
	bump your head, sissy. Give my love to Mama-
	tell her I'll see her Thursday.


	I will- be good, kids.


'Bye, mom! Bye, dad!				We will! 'Bye!

The station wagon accelerates away.


	Can I tell you kids something?


	Sure, Uncle Al.


	When me and sissy were kids, we were
	just like you two.


	Yeah? Really?


	Yeah. Really. The bitch of it is, we still
	are. Learn from your elders, dearies.

He ushers them inside and closes the door.





	I can't believe that you'd agree to leave
	the kids with him. A year ago I would have
	laughed at the idea. You used to almost
	breathe fire when Al came in the house.


	He's changed. Just this summer. Or
	something's changed him. Marty, maybe.
	And the drinking- I think it's almost
	stopped. Whatever it is, it's wonderful.
	And they'll be safe with him. I'm sure
	of it.


	I know they'll be safe with him... but will
	he get them both into bed by nine-thirty?

		NAN 
	If I told him to, he will.




It reads 1:00.

SOUND: The National Anthem.




The anthem finishes up. We go to a station ID card.


	This concludes WDML's broadcast day.

The TV goes to snow.




She's mostly asleep in one corner.




He's also dozing.




He is also dozing. There are three or four empty beer cans
in front of him, and a cigarette with a long ash is
smoldering between his fingers. There's a .22 pistol in his
lap.




The WEREWOLF breaks from the woods and runs across the side
yard to a line of high bushes that runs along the side of
the house .




There is a space in here between the house and the bushes-
it's like an animal's run. The WEREWOLF creeps along this,
its one eye flaring.






UNCLE AL jumps up and cries out as the cigarette burns up to
his fingers. The .22 falls onto the rug.

MARTY and JANE also wake up, startled.




It recoils, eyes gleaming. Foam begins to drip from its
jaws. It creeps slowly along toward a window. TV SNOW SOUNDS





UNCLE AL is shaking his burned hand; he picks the cigarette
out of his lap and puts it out.

		JANE 
	You'll burn yourself up sometime doing
	that, Uncle Al.


	I suppose so. You kids ought to go up to bed.


	But Uncle Al! You said-


	I know what I said, Marty- but it's ten
	past one. He's not coming.


	The moon's not down yet...


	Damn near. Now I'll sit up with this
	stupid gun in my lap because I promised,
	but you two are going to bed. Go on,
	now, scoot.

JANE gets up and starts toward the stairs.


	What if I say no?


	Then I'd have to kick your ass, dear boy.
	 Go on, now.

MARTY begins to roll the Silver Bullet toward the stairs,
where the stair chair awaits. JANE is waiting for him at the
living-room doorway. MARTY sees the gun on the floor and
stops.


	If that'd gone off, it would have been the
	end of our silver bullet.




He prickles a bit at the unstated criticism. He bends down
and picks up the pistol. He opens the cylinder. Five
chambers are empty; in one there's a bright silver circle.




He pushes the cylinder plunger, dropping the silver bullet
into his hand.


	See, dear boy? Totally unimpaired.

Behind him, the WEREWOLF'S head appears in the window, its
green eye flaring.




MARTY, looking toward UNCLE AL, sees nothing. JANE is
looking toward the window and she SCREAMS.

		JANE 
	It's him! It's the werewolf! I see him!


She's pointing at the window.




He jumps up and looks around at the window- at this point AL
has the .22 with its cylinder open in one hand and the
silver bullet loosely held in the other.

Nothing in the window but darkness. UNCLE AL turns back to
the kids.

		UNCLE AL 
	You see it, Marty!




		MARTY 
	I was looking at you...




His shoulders slump a little with relief- now that the scare
is over, his relief is tempered with irritation. They're
just a couple of hysterical kids after all, and JANE is
actually worse than MARTY. Polly Practical indeed!


	A very familiar feeling is beginning to
	creep over me.




JANE is crying.


	What's that, Uncle Al?





	I feel like a horse's ass.




		JANE 
	I saw it, Uncle Al! I did!

MARTY rolls a little closer to her and attempts to put a
comforting arm around her shoulder.


	Don't you touch me, snotbrains!


	Jane-





	Would you kids go to bed? My head's
	starting to ache.




We see a clawed, hairy hand reach into the frame and close
around a thick wire.

		WEREWOLF 
	Reeeal slow...

It yanks.




The lights go out.




	It's here! It's outside!





	Jane, it's just a power fai-

He's starting toward her. At that moment most of the wall-
not just the window it was looking through before but the
whole wall- crashes inward as the WEREWOLF bulls its way
through, roaring.

UNCLE AL whirls, raising the pistol automatically to fire-
but the cylinder is rolled out and all the chambers are
empty. He has time to register surprise before the WEREWOLF
smashes him aside.




He goes flying backward. The pistol goes one way, the silver
bullet another.




It spins into a living-room corner.




We see it rise in the air, turning over and over. It comes
down, hits the floor, and rolls.




In the extreme f.g. is a heating vent. The bullet is rolling
toward it.





	Get the gun!

He uses his hands to propel the ungainly Silver Bullet into
the hall.




The silver bullet rolls slowly toward the heating vent. In
the b.g. we see a frantic MARTY in his wheelchair.

He heaves himself out of it and falls full-length, grabbing.

His fingers touch the bullet, but that's all. It falls in
the heating vent.




It's roaring, furious, its one eye flaring.




UNCLE AL lies senseless against one wall, the front of his
shirt bloody. JANE runs into the corner and grabs the
pistol.

The WEREWOLF picks up the easy chair and throws it through
the hole it made coming in. It picks up an end table and
hurls it through the TV. Then it sees JANE and starts toward
her.







Comes toward her.




She makes as if to run one way.




It's only a couple of feet from her now, but again, it is
toying with her- it's making this reeeal slow.




A bloodstained hand grabs a poker.




As it tenses down to leap at her, UNCLE AL leaps at it and
strikes it across the back. It turns, ROARING.

UNCLE AL hits it between the legs.

It BELLOWS and grabs the poker. It bends it and tosses it
aside. The glaring, savage expression on its face says that
now it will bend UNCLE AL and toss him aside.




She breaks out of the corner and runs across the room toward
the door. Most of the way there she trips and falls.




Its head whips around.




He's lying full-length. He's got the heater vent's grille
off. One arm is down inside.

		MARTY 
	Janey! The gun! THE GUN!




She tosses it awkwardly.




It slides down the hall floor to MARTY like some strange,
awkward shuffleboard disc, its cylinder still open.




		WEREWOLF 
	Maa-aaa-rty...

It begins walking slowly across the living room, smashing
things out of its way.




The gun slides into his hand. Now he reaches into the
heating duct again...




There's an elbow bend just below MARTY'S twisting, grasping
fingers- the silver bullet lies here. It's less than half an
inch out of reach.




		WEREWOLF 
	Maaa-aaa-rty...




		JANE 
	Don't you hurt him! Don't you hurt my brother!

She bites one of the WEREWOLF'S hairy ankles as it passes.




It roars with pain and kicks her aside. Then it looks back
into the hall. It is grinning. I believe it is thinking this
is going to be better than a Thanksgiving dinner you don't
have to pay for.


	Reeeal slow, Maa-aaarty-




He's reaching desperately into the duct and staring at the
approaching WEREWOLF.




MARTY'S fingers brush the bullet once... again... seize it.




He rolls over on his back and sticks the silver bullet
blindly into one chamber of the cylinder and slams the
cylinder closed.





	Bastard Marty!




He points the gun and pulls the trigger. There's only a
click. An expression of dismay on his face.





	Kill you...




He drags himself so he's half propped against the hall wall.
He pulls the trigger again. Click! Dismay becomes fear.




It's reached the Silver Bullet. It smashes it aside. The
Bullet hits the wall.




Holding the gun in both hands now, he pulls the trigger a
third time. Click!

The WEREWOLF'S shadow falls over him.





	Bastard Marty!

It bends down, reaching.




Craning back as if to drive himself into the wall, he pulls
the trigger again.




The bullet flies from the barrel, gleaming silver.




The silver bullet strikes him in his one remaining eye. He
flies backward, hands clapped to his gushing face... and
crashes into MARTY'S Silver Bullet wheelchair. It sits
there, roaring... and then it begins to change.




She lies there, sobbing.

		UNCLE AL 
	You okay, Janey?




UNCLE AL is bloody and staggering but on his feet. He helps
JANE up.


	I'm all right... but Marty! Ma-






Its hands drop from its face. It is now blind in both eyes;
it is half WEREWOLF and half LOWE.

It BELLOWS again, convulses... and dies.




		MARTY 
	I'm all right. He's dead.




Here's a creature that is mostly FATHER LOWE collapsed in
the remains of MARTY'S wheelchair; beyond it, MARTY is lying
on the floor. UNCLE AL goes by the corpse. JANE starts by...
and LOWE sits bolt upright for a moment, grasping blindly at
her.

She shrieks and darts aside. LOWE falls back, now really
dead. I think. Until the sequel.




UNCLE AL puts a comforting arm around JANE, who is sobbing
again- hell, I'd be sobbing after that last one, myself- and
draws her down beside himself and MARTY.

		UNCLE AL 
	There. I told you there weren't any such
	things as werewolves.

They smile at each other with love.

		JANE 
	Are you sure it's dead? Or him? Or
	whatever it is?


	If it isn't now, it will be after I pound
	one of your mother's silver candlesticks
	through its heart.

		JANE 
	Oh Uncle Al, no!

		UNCLE AL 
	Oh yes, Janey. When I believe something, I
	believe it all the way.

He gets up and leaves.


	Are you all right, Marty?


	All except my legs... I don't think I can walk.


	You're a real booger, you know it?

		MARTY 
	I love you, Jane.




Quiet. Sleeping.

		JANE 
	It wasn't always easy for me to answer
	that... but I could answer it that night,
	and I find I can say it now that the
	terrible events of that fall have receded
	to memories which seem little more than
	dreams in my mind.




		JANE 
	I love you, Marty.




		JANE 
	I love you, Marty... good night.

THE CAMERA PANS UP to the full moon.




