








                           Written by

                    Jared Bush &amp; Phil Johnston




                                                                     Story by
                                                     Byron Howard, Rich Moore,
                                      Jared Bush, Jim Reardon, Josie Trinidad,
                                                Phil Johnston and Jennifer Lee





   We hear the feral, primeval sounds of a jungle at night. A
   timpani bangs an ominous beat.






   A BUNNY nervously walks through the dark, foreboding forest,
   frightened by every shadow and moving leaf.


          Fear. Treachery. Bloodlust!
          Thousands of years ago, these were
          the forces that ruled our world. A
          world where prey were scared of
          predators. And predators had an
          uncontrollable biological urge to
          maim and maul and...

   The timpani crescendos. A JAGUAR leaps out of the shadows,
   attacks the bunny, who screams--






   The action continues-- as imagined by an amateur stage
   production.


          Blood, blood, blood!

   Reams of red papier mâché entrails ooze from the bunny. And
   when those run out-- projectile ketchup.

   Reveal: These are ANIMAL KID ACTORS. The bunny, JUDY HOPPS,
   10, is our hero. And this is her play being staged. A banner
   reads: CARROT DAYS TALENT SHOW!


          And death.

   The CROWD looks on, confused. The music goes discordant as
   BOBBY CATMULL, a bobcat, bangs a drum.


          Back then, the world was divided in
          two. Vicious predator or Meek prey.



TWO BOXES drop down, labeled VICIOUS PREDATOR and MEEK PREY.
The PREDATOR box lands on the jaguar. The MEEK PREY box lands
on Judy. Her entrails get stuck outside the box. She drags
them underneath with her.


          But over time, we evolved, and
          moved beyond our primitive savage
          ways.

A YOUNG SHEEP wearing a white muumuu and a cardboard rainbow
on his head does an improvisational dance across the stage.
Judy and the jaguar burst out of their boxes, now wearing
white muumuus, too.


          Now, predator and prey live in
          harmony.

Judy and the jaguar shake hands as the sheep throws glitter.


          And every young mammal has
          multitudinous opportunities.


          Yeah, I don't have to cower in a
          herd anymore.

The Jaguar rips off his muumuu. She's wearing a homemade
astronaut costume.


          Instead I can be an astronaut.

Catmull plays a slide whistle.


          I don't have to be a lonely hunter
          any more.

The Jaguar rips off his muumuu. He's dressed in a suit.


          Today I can hunt for tax
          exemptions. I'm gonna be an
          actuary!


          And I can make the world a better
          place! I am going to be...

Catmull plays a 70s-style cop show theme on the boom box.
Judy rips off her muumuu, revealing a POLICE OFFICER UNIFORM.




          A police officer!

Judy's parents, BONNIE &amp; STU, look stunned. A mean fox kid,
GIDEON GREY, snickers. He's sitting next to a WEASEL KID.


          Bunny cop. That is the most
          stupidest thing I ever heard.


          It may seem impossible to small
          minds--
              
          I'm looking at you Gideon Grey.

Catmull drops down a backdrop showing a bright city skyline.
He hits play on an uplifting song.


          But just 211 miles away stands the
          great city of Zootopia! Where our
          ancestors first joined together in
          peace, and declared that anyone can
          be anything! Thank you and good
          night!

Judy gives a mighty thespian bow, to the sound of Catmull on
organ. The audience applauds. Judy's parents look concerned.




A festival replete with food booths, games and rides-- all
aggressively carrot-themed. Judy, in her Cop Costume, bounces
along with her folks. We catch their conversation mid-stream.


          Judy, you ever wonder how your mom
          and me got to be so darn happy?


          Nope.


          Well, we gave up on our dreams and
          we settled, right Bon?


          Oh yes, that's right, Stu. We
          settled hard.




          See, that's the beauty of
          complacency, Jude. If you don't try
          anything new, you'll never fail.


          I like trying, actually.


          What your father means, hon, is
          it's gonna be difficult--
          impossible even-- for you to become
          a police officer.


          Right. There's never been a bunny
          cop.


          No.


          Bunnies don't do that.


          Never.


          Never.


          Oh. Then I guess I'll have to be
          the first one. Because I am gonna
          make the world...
              (parkours against a
               vendor's stand)
          A better place!


          OR... um, heck, you wanna talk
          about making the world a better
          place--

The trio arrives at the Hopps Family Farm carrot booth, which
is manned by too many children to count.


          --no better way to do it than
          becoming a carrot farmer.


          Yes! Your dad, me, your 275
          brothers and sisters-- we're
          changing the world.




          Yep.


          One carrot at a time...


          Amen to that. Carrot farming is a
          noble profession.

Judy spots GIDEON GREY stalking some SMALL ANIMALS. She
remains fixed on Gideon as Stu and Bonnie yap on obliviously.


          Mmm hmm. Just putting the seeds in
          the ground.


          Ahh, at one with the soil.

We're back on Bonnie and Stu's conversation now.


          You get it. I mean, it's great to
          have dreams.


          Yeah, just as long as you don't
          believe in em too much.
              (finally noticing Judy's
               absence)
          Where in the heck'd she go?

ACROSS THE FAIR... From behind a tree, Judy watches as Gideon
Grey intimidates the astronaut sheep, SHARLA.


          Gimme your tickets right now, or
          I'm gonna kick your meek little
          sheep butt.


          Ow! Cut it out, Gideon!


          Baa-baa. What're ya gonna do, cry?

Gideon swipes Sharla's fair tickets.


          Hey!

Judy charges toward the danger.




          You heard her. Cut it out.

Gideon turns. There's Judy, projecting the image of a tiny
Clint Eastwood.


          Nice costume, loser. What crazy
          world are you living in where you
          think a bunny could be a cop?


          Kindly return my friends' tickets.

Gideon pats the tickets in his pocket.


          Come and get `em.... But watch out,
          `cause I'm a fox-- and like you
          said in your dumb little stage
          play, us predators used to eat
          prey. And that killer instinct's
          still in our Dunnahh.


              
          Uh, I'm pretty much sure it's
          pronounced D-N-A.


          Don't tell me what I know, Travis.


          You don't scare me, Gideon.

Gideon shoves Judy. Hard. She falls. The other prey animals
flee to safety behind a nearby tree, leaving her to face the
thugs alone.


          You scared now?

Judy starts to tear up. Her nose starts to twitch.


          Lookit her nose twitch. She is
          scared!


          Cry little baby bunny. Cry, cry --

Suddenly-- BAM! Judy kicks Gideon in the face with her hind
legs. He stumbles back, then checks his lip for blood.




          Oh, you don't know when to quit, do
          ya?

He unsheathes his claws like a switchblade, then slaps her,
drawing blood from her cheek. She cowers, as do her scared
friends behind the tree.


          I want you to remember this moment--
          the next time you think you will
          ever be anything more than just a
          stupid, carrot farming dumb bunny.

Gideon and his pal head off, laughing and high-fiving. The
prey animals run back over to Judy, who wipes the blood from
her cheek. She fights tears, defeated.


          That looks bad.


          Are you okay, Judy?


          Yeah... Yeah, I'm okay.

Judy smiles and then whips out the tickets as she gets up.


          Here you go.


          Wow! You got our tickets!


          You're awesome, Judy!


          Yeah! That Gideon Grey doesn't know
          what he's talkin' `bout.


          Well, he was right about one
          thing...

Judy picks up the cop hat, puts it on her head.


          I don't know when to quit.







Hopps and the comparatively huge CADETS sit in a circle as
MAJOR FRIEDKIN, an intimidating drill instructor, lectures.


          Listen up Cadets! Zootopia has 12
          unique ecosystems within its city
          limits-- Tundra Town, Sahara
          Square, Rainforest District, to
          name a few. You're gonna have to
          master all of them before you hit
          the streets-- or guess what?
              
          You'll be dead!



Hopps struggles through the sand.


          Scorching sandstorm. You're dead,
          bunny bumpkin!



Hopps swings across the bars, simulating the RAINFOREST
DISTRICT. She falls off, landing face first in the mud.


          1000 foot fall. You're dead, carrot
          face!



Judy and the cadets sprint toward the wall. The CLAWED
ANIMALS dig into the ice wall. Hopps slides off.


          Frigid ice wall. You're dead, farm
          girl!



Hopps gets in the ring with a BIG BISON.


          E-normous criminal.

Hopps gets punched in the nose.


          You're dead!






          Dead! / Dead! / Dead!



Hopps ruses into a stall. The toilet is considerably larger
than she is. She shuts the door. We see her climb up the
toilet. In the next stall, we see the feet of a Hippo.

Then, KERSPLASH! Hopps falls into the toilet.


          Filthy toilet. You're dead, fluff
          butt!



She runs at sunset-- after everyone else has called it a day.
We HEAR the drill instructor's voice echoing in her mind.


          Just quit and go home, fuzzy bunny!

Then those of her parents...


          There's never been a bunny cop.


          Never.


          Never.

Then Gideon's...


          Just a stupid, carrot farming dumb
          bunny.




Hopps stays up late studying, doing sit ups.



Hopps bounds up the wall, jumps off of the backs of the big
animals and makes it over, impressing the Major Friedkin.





Hopps dodges a few swings. The Bison misses. Hopps bounds
over him and uses his momentum-- kicking his other hand into
his face, knocking him down.






It's graduation day. MAYOR LIONHEART is at the podium.


          As Mayor of Zootopia, I am proud to
          announce that my Mammal Inclusion
          Initiative has produced its first
          police academy graduate.

Judy stands proudly in her cop uniform.


          Valedictorian of her class, ZPD's
          very first rabbit officer... Judy
          Hopps.

Judy walks to the stage as those in attendance cheer-- her
FAMILY chief among them. ASSISTANT MAYOR BELLWETHER applauds.
She smiles at Judy, lost in the moment.


              
          Assistant Mayor Bellwether? Her
          badge.


          Oh! Yes right.


          Thank you.

Bellwether steps forward to pin Hopps' ZPD badge on her.


          Judy, it is my great privilege to
          officially assign you to the heart
          of Zootopia: Precinct One, City
          Center.

Judy can barely contain her glee. Her parents are in shock.


          Congratulations, Officer Hopps.




          I won't let you down. This has been
          my dream since I was a kid.


          Ya know, it's a... It's a real
          proud day for us little guys.


          Bellwether, make room will ya? Come
          on.

Lionheart shoves Bellwether out of the way.


          Okay, Officer Hopps. Let's see
          those teeth!

A group of PHOTOGRAPHERS aim their cameras. Lionheart steps
in front of Bellwether, edging her out of the photo. The
flashbulbs pop.




Stu, Bonnie, and several SIBLINGS accompany Judy to the train
station.


          We're real proud of you, Judy.


          Yeah. Scared, too.


          Yes.


          Really, it's kind of a proud-scared
          combo. I mean, Zootopia. It's so
          far a away... It's such a big city.


          Guys-- I've been working for this
          my whole life.


          We know. And we're just a little
          excited for you, but terrified.


          The only thing we have to fear is
          fear itself.




          And also bears. We have bears to
          fear, too. To say nothing of lions,
          and wolves...


          Wolves?


          ...weasels...


          You play cribbage with a weasel.


          And he cheats like there's no
          tomorrow. You know what, pretty
          much all predators-- and Zootopia's
          full of `em.


              
          Oh, Stu.


          And foxes are the worst.


              
          Actually, your father does have a
          point there. It's in their biology.
          Remember what happened with Gideon
          Grey.


          When I was 9. Gideon Grey was a
          jerk, who happened to be a fox. I
          know plenty of bunnies who are
          jerks.


          Sure. Yeah, we all do. Absolutely.
          But just in case, we made you a
          little care package to take with
          you.


          And I put some snacks in there.

Stu begins pulling a bunch of PINK FOX DETERRENTS from a bag.


          This is fox deterrent.




          Yeah that's safe to have there.


          This is fox repellent...


          Okay, the deterrent and the
          repellent. That's all she needs.


          Check this out!

Stu removes a Fox Taser, fires it up. It sizzles.


          Oh for goodness sake. She has no
          need for a fox taser, Stu.


          Oh c'mon. When is there not a need
          for a fox taser?


          Okay, look-- I will take this to
          make you stop talking.

Judy grabs the pink fox repellent from the bag as the train
pulls up.


          Terrific! Everyone wins!


          Arriving-- Zootopia Express!


          OK. Gotta go. Bye!

Judy heads for the train, head held high. No turning back.

Stu and Bonnie watch, both holding back tears. Suddenly, the
emotion catches up with Judy. She turns, runs back to her
parents, hugs them tight.


          I love you guys.


          Love you, too!

One more squeeze, then Judy runs off and jumps on the train.




          Oh cripes, here come the
          waterworks.


          Oh Stu, pull it together.


          Bye everybody!


          Bye, Judy! I love you!


          Bye!

As the train pulls away, her family runs next to it, waving.


          Bye!

Judy looks back as their faces recede into the distance. The
train blasts past Bunnyburrow, passing its exponentially
increasing population sign.

Judy pulls out her iPhone and clicks play... her new life is
about to begin and we






As Hopps takes the train, it rounds a curve. She looks up.
Her eyes light up. There in the distance is...




...THE UNBELIEVABLE ANIMAL METROPOLIS of ZOOTOPIA, which is
comprised of amazing habitat "boroughs." The train whips past

MEADOWLANDS, SAHARA SQUARE, etc.




Hopps spills out of the train... and we are now in a MULTI-
SCALE ENVIRONMENT: everything from mice to elephants.





Hopps emerges into the main Zootopia central plaza. It's an
amazing, magnificent place.

A JUMBOTRON featuring a gazelle pop star, GAZELLE, blares its
message in a loop.


          I am Gazelle. Welcome to Zootopia!






DHARMA ARMADILLO, Hopps's older ARMADILLO LANDLADY, opens the
door to Hopps' new apartment-- which we can't see yet.


          And welcome to the Grand Pangolin
          Arms. "Luxury Apartments with
          Charm."

Hopps discovers the room is a tiny, crappy studio apartment.


          Complimentary de-lousing once a
          month.
              
          Don't lose your key.


          Thank you!

As Dharma leaves, Hopps' volatile, artsy NEIGHBORS, KUDU and
ORYX POOTOSSER, pass by in the hall.


          Oh hi, I'm Judy! Your new neighbor!


          Yeah? Well we're loud.


          Don't expect us to apologize for
          it.

Before Hopps can respond, they're gone, leaving Hopps alone.
She looks around... blank-faced so it's tough to read her
emotions.


          Greasy walls... rickety bed...




          Shut up!


          You shut up!


          No! You shut up!


          Crazy neighbors...
              (big smile as she flops on
               the bed)
          I love it!

As the shouting continues, she stretches out on her bed,
exhausted but overjoyed.




Quick, rhythmic cuts of:

- Alarm clock: Beep. Beep. Beep.

- Dressing: Vest. Badge. Belt.

On the bedside table sits the PINK FOX REPELLENT. Judy
glances at it and smirks-- taking it would be silly-- she
walks out of frame. HOLD on the table. One second. Then
Judy's hand comes back into frame and grabs the Repellent.




Utter mayhem. COPS parade PERPS through the lobby-- one is
wearing cuffs and a plastic  safety muzzle, he
complains to the BEAR COP marching him by.


          C'mon! He bared his teeth first.

We land at the front desk and find CLAWHAUSER, a PUDGY
CHEETAH COP, happily eating a bowl of Lucky Chomps cereal.


          Scuse me! Down here? Hi.

Clawhauser leans over the desk to find Hopps.


          O-M goodness! They really did hire
          a bunny. What?!




          I gotta tell ya, you are even cuter
          than I thought you'd be.


              
          Ooo, uh, you probably didn't know,
          but a bunny can call another bunny
          "cute," but when other animals do
          it, it's a little...


              
          I am so sorry. Me, Benjamin
          Clawhauser, the guy everyone thinks
          is just a flabby, donut-loving cop,
          stereotyping you...?


          It's okay-- oh, you've actually
          you've actually got a-- there's a--
          in your neck-- the fold-- the--
          there's--

Clawhauser removes a small donut from under some neck fat.


          Oh, there you went, you little
          dickens!

He crams the donut into his mouth.


              
          I should get to roll call, so...
          which way do I?


          Oh! Bullpen's over there to the
          left.


          Great, thank you!

Clawhauser watches admiringly as she heads to the bullpen.


              
          Aw... That poor little bunny's
          gonna get eaten alive.





Hopps enters the bullpen, by far the smallest animal in the
room: rhinos, buffalo, hippos, elephants, etc. Hopps holds
her paw out to a tough RHINO, MCHORN.


          Hey. Officer Hopps. You ready to
          make the world a better place?

McHorn gives Hopps a reluctant fist bump, nearly knocking her
off the chair.




In walks CHIEF BOGO, a gruff CAPE BUFFALO. He takes the dais.
Everyone snaps to attention and starts stomping the floor.


          All right, all right. Everybody
          sit.

As Hopps sits, she disappears below the DESK that is meant
for a rhino.


          I've got three items on the docket.
          First... we need to acknowledge the
          elephant in the room.
              
          Francine, happy birthday.

An elephant, FRANCINE, blushes as other cops clap.


          Number two: There are some new
          recruits with us I should
          introduce. But I'm not going to,
          because I don't care. Finally...

He turns to a push pin-pocked MAP that's covered in photos of
MISSING MAMMALS. Hopps's eyes go wide.


          ...We have 14 missing mammal cases.
          All predators, from a giant polar
          bear, to a teensy little otter. And
          City Hall is right up my tail to
          find them. This is priority number
          one. Assignments!

HIGGINS hands Bogo a stack of CASE FILES. Bogo puts on his
reading glasses, examining the files as he assigns cases.




          Officers Grizzoli, Fangmeyer,
          Delgato-- your teams take Missing
          Mammals from the Rainforest
          District. Officers McHorn,
          Rhinowitz, Wolfard, your teams take
          Sahara Square. Officers Higgins,
          Snarlov, Trunkaby: Tundratown. And
          finally, our first bunny, Officer
          Hopps.

Hopps sits up, expectant but steely. Bogo looks at the final
case file in his hand. He takes a dramatic breath, then:


          Parking Duty. Dismissed!


          Parking duty?
              
          Uh, Chief? Chief Bogo?

Bogo looks around... then down to find Hopps.


          Sir, you said there were 14 missing
          mammal cases?


          So.


          So I can handle one. You probably
          forgot, but I was top of my class
          at the academy.


          Didn't forget. Just don't care.


          Sir, I'm not just some "token"
          bunny.


          Well, then writing a hundred
          tickets a day should be easy.

He goes, slamming the door behind him. Judy stomps her foot.


          100 tickets...? I'm not gonna write
          100 tickets... I'm gonna write 200
          tickets!




              
          Before noon!




Hopps dons a vest, buckles her seat belt, floors the pedal
and... takes off at 2 miles an hour. Which leads to a



Hopps zooms past a row of cars, marking their tires. Cruising
the streets, her super-sensitive ears hear a meter ding. She
slams her brakes-- then proudly issues Ticket #1.

Ding! Another meter goes off. Then another. And another.
She's on a roll. She looks down at her counter. It's at 200.


          Boom! 200 tickets before noon.

A final ding... Reveal: her own traffic cart is at an expired
meter. Hopps rolls her eyes and writes herself a ticket.




As Hopps puts the ticket on her windshield, she hears a voice
across the street:


          Hey, watch where you're going, Fox!

Hopps looks across the street to see... a RED FOX. Hopps
looks at him, a little suspicious.

The Fox looks around, then slinks into a café. Hopps runs
across the street and peeks in the window. It's an ice cream
parlor, but... the FOX IS GONE.


              
          Where'd he go...




Elephants scoop ice cream with their trunks, suck up nuts
with their trunks. It's cute but also disgusting. As Hopps
enters, she spots the fox, NICK WILDE, at the front of the
line and overhears the proprietor, JERRY, addressing him.




          Listen, I don't know what you're
          doing skulking around during
          daylight hours, but I don't want
          any trouble in here... So hit the
          road.

Hopps unsnaps the holster of her PINK FOX REPELLENT.


          I'm not looking for any trouble
          either, sir. I simply want to buy a
          Jumbo Pop for my little boy.

Ready for action, slowly creeping forward, Hopps's expression
changes when she sees that Nick is with his TODDLER SON.


              
          You want the red or the blue, pal?

Staring at the cute little boy, Hopps is embarrassed by her
impulse. She snaps the Repellent holster and begins to leave.


              
          I'm such a...


          Oh come on, kid. Back up. Listen,
          buddy, what? There aren't any fox
          ice cream joints in your part of
          town?

Hopps suddenly stops. Her ears go up and she turns around.


          Uh, no no, there are. There are.
          It's just, my boy--
              
          --this goofy little stinker-- he
          loves all things elephant. Wants to
          be one when he grows up.

The boy gives a TOOT-TOOT with his toy elephant trunk.


          Isn't it adorable? Who the heck am
          I to crush his little dreams, huh?
          Right?


          Look, you probably can't read, fox
          but the sign says...




              (slowly reads SIGN,
               belittling)

          SERVICE TO ANYONE. So beat it.


          You're holding up the line.

The little fox is about to cry, when Hopps walks up.


          Hello? Excuse me?


          Hey, you're gonna have to wait your
          turn like everyone else, metermaid.


          Actually...
              
          I'm an officer. Just had a quick
          question. Are your customers aware
          they're getting snot and mucous
          with their cookies and cream?

An ELEPHANT COUPLE overhear and spit out their ice cream.


          What are you talkin' about?


          Well, I don't wanna cause you any
          trouble, but I believe scooping ice
          cream with an un-gloved trunk is a
          Class 3 Health Code Violation...

A guilty EMPLOYEE releases a scoop from their trunk.


          ...Which is kind of a big deal. Of
          course-- I could let you off with a
          warning if you were to glove those
          trunks and, I don't know, finish
          selling this nice dad and his son
          a... what was it?


          A Jumbo Pop. Please.


          A Jumbo Pop.




              
          Fifteen dollars.


          Thank you so much.
              
          Thank you.
              
          Oh no, are you kidding me? I don't
          have my wallet. I'd lose my head if
          it weren't attached to my neck,
          that's the truth. Oh boy, I'm sorry
          pal. Gotta be about the worst
          birthday ever. Please don't be mad
          at me.
              
          Thanks, anyway.

He turns to go. Hopps slaps some money on the counter.


          Keep the change.




Hopps has the Toddler's hand. Nick holds a HUGE JUMBO-POP.


          Officer, I can't thank you enough.
          So kind, really, can I pay you
          back?


          Oh no, my treat-- it just-- y'know,
          it burns me up to see folks with
          such backward attitudes toward
          foxes. I just wanna say, you're a
          great dad and just a... a real
          articulate fella.


          Ah, well, that is high praise. It's
          rare that I find someone so non-
          patronizing... Officer...


              
          Hopps. Mr...


          Wilde. Nick Wilde.




              
          And you little guy, you want to be
          an elephant when you grow up... you
          be an elephant-- because this is
          Zootopia, anyone can be anything.

Hopps puts a STICKER BADGE on the boy's chest.


          Ah, boy, I tell him that all the
          time. All right here ya go--
              
          Two paws. Yeah. Oh, look at that
          smile, that's a happy birthday
          smile! All right, give her a little
          bye-bye toot toot.

The kid toots.


          Toot, toot!


          Bye now!


          Goodbye!

Hopps walks off with a spring in her step.




Hopps continues to write tickets. As she leaves a ticket on
another car, she can see a few blocks away. It's NICK and his
KID. Hopps gives them a wave, but they don't notice her.


          Oh! Hey, little toot toot--

Hopps realizes they are melting their jumbo-pop in the hot
sun, channeling the juice into jugs. Huh? Nick and his kid
pack the jugs into a van and NICK'S SON gets in the driver's
seat. They drive off, passing Hopps, who stares, confused.




Hopps follows them to... Tundratown, where Nick's "son" uses
his little paw prints to create molds they pour the popsicle
juice into, creating dozens of smaller popsicles. Hopps looks
on, scandalized.





Hopps watches them resell the "Pawpsicles" at marked-up
prices to LEMMINGS... when one buys one, they all do.


          Pawpsicles! Get your pawpsicles!

Nick rakes in the cash. As the lemmings leave, they throw
their used popsicle sticks into a RECYCLING BIN. A second
later, Nick's "son," FINNICK, emerges from the bin with a
bundle of used popsicle sticks. Hopps is mortified.




Hopps watches Nick plop down a big bundle of USED POPSICLE
STICKS in front of a MOUSE CONSTRUCTION WORKER.


          Lumber delivery!


          What's with the color?


          The color? Uh... It's redwood.

Hopps has now graduated to genuine anger.




Nick hands Finnick a wad of cash.


          39...40. There you go. Way to work
          that diaper, big guy. Hey, no kiss
          bye-bye for daddy?


              
          You kiss me tomorrow, I'll bite
          your face off. Ciao.

As Finnick drives off in his van, BLARING LOUD FRENCH RAP
MUSIC. We discover HOPPS behind it, and she is not happy.


          Well. I stood up for you, and you
          lied to me. You liar!




          It's called a hustle, sweetheart.
          And I'm not the liar, he is.

Nick points behind Hopps. She turns... no one. She turns
back. Nick is gone-- his tail disappears around a corner.


          Hey!

Nick walks on, calmly. Hopps hurries up to him.


          Alright, slick Nick, you're under
          arrest.


          Really, for what?


          Gee I don't know, how `bout selling
          food without a permit, transporting
          undeclared commerce across borough
          lines, false advertising...

Nick smiles and produces those documents.


          Permit. Receipt of declared
          commerce. And I didn't falsely
          advertise anything. Take care.


          You told that mouse the popsicle
          sticks were redwood!


          That's right. "Red wood." With a
          space in the middle. Wood that is
          red.
               
          You can't touch me, Carrots, I been
          doing this since I was born.


          You're gonna wanna refrain from
          calling me Carrots...


          My bad. I just naturally assumed
          you came from some little carrot-
          choked podunk, no?




              
          Ah, no. Podunk is in Deerbrooke
          County, and I grew up in
          Bunnyburrow.


          Okay. Tell me if this story sounds
          familiar:
              
          Naïve little hick with good grades
          and big ideas decides, "Hey lookit
          me, I'm gonna move to Zootopia--
          where Predators and Prey live in
          harmony and sing Kumbaya!" Only to
          find-- whoopsie, we don't all get
          along. And that dream of becoming a
          big city cop? Double whoopsie!
          She's a meter maid. And whoopsie
          number threesie-- NO ONE cares
          about her or her dreams. And soon
          enough those dreams die and our
          bunny sinks into emotional and
          literal squalor living in a box
          under a bridge. Til finally she has
          no choice but to go back home with
          that cute, fuzzy wuzzy little tail
          between her legs to become-- you're
          from Bunnyburrow, is that what you
          said?-- so how `bout a carrot
          farmer... That sound about right?

She's speechless-- How did he get my number so quickly? A
RHINO almost crushes her.


          Be careful now, it won't just be
          your dreams getting crushed.


              
          Hey! Hey! No one tells me what I
          can or can't be! Especially not
          some jerk who never had the guts to
          try to be anything more than a
          popsicle hustler!


          Alright look, everyone comes to
          Zootopia thinking they can be
          anything they want. Well you can't.
          You can only be what you are.
              
          Sly fox.




              
          Dumb bunny.


          I am NOT a dumb bunny.


          Right. And that's not wet cement.

She looks down. She's landed in wet cement.


              
          You'll never be a real cop. You're
          a cute meter maid though. Maybe a
          supervisor one day. Hang in
          there...




CLOSE ON HER WELCOME MAT: Hopps wipes off her cement covered
feet. Then she enters



Hopps turns on the radio. Everybody Hurts plays. She changes
the station. A sadder song comes on. She changes the station
repeatedly, each song progressively sadder. Finally, she
lands on a treacly instrumental that will score the scene.

She puts in a microwave dinner: CARROTS FOR ONE. Hopps takes
her food  and sits at a small table.

Her phone rings. INSERT: MOM &amp; DAD FACETIME. Hopps shakes her
head, sighs, then puts on a fake smile and answers.


          Oh hey, it's my parents!


          Aw there she is! Hi sweetheart!

THE FACETIME cuts between Bonnie on her phone. Stu will pop
in and out of frame.


          Hey there, Jude the Dude! How was
          your first day on the force?


          It was real great.




          Yeah? Everything you ever hoped?


          Mmm. Absolutely. And more.
          Everyone's so nice. And I feel like
          I'm really making a difference--


              
          Hey, wait a second. Holy cripes,
          Bonnie! Look at that!


              
          Oh my sweet heaven-- Judy, are you
          a meter maid?

Hopps is still wearing her vest, and her hat is on the chair.


              
          Oh this? No! Oh, no no! This is
          just a temporary thing--


          It's the safest job on the force!


          Ah, she's not a real cop! Our
          prayers have been answered!


          Glorious day!


          Meter maid, meter maid!


          Dad! Dad--


          Meter maid, meter maid!


          DAD! You know what-- it's been a
          really long day, I should really--


          That's right. You get some rest!


          Those meters aren't gonna maid
          themselves.




          Bye bye!


              
          Buh-bye.

She hangs up, defeated. The SELF-PITYING MUSIC comes up full.


          Hey Bunny! Turn down that
          depressing music!


          Leave the meter maid alone! Didn't
          you hear her conversation? She
          feels like a failure!

Judy turns off the music.


          Oh, shut up!


          You shut up!


          You shut up!


              
          Tomorrow's another day...


          Yeah, but it might be worse!

Off Judy's exhausted look, we:






Hopps, on meter maid duty, thunks a ticket on a windshield.


          I was 30 seconds over!

Another meter dings, Hopps puts another ticket on a very
small windshield.


          Ugh! Yeah you're a real hero, lady!



DING! Another ticket down. A MOTHER HIPPO picks up the
ticket, her SMALL CHILD looks right at Hopps.


          My mommy says she wishes you were
          dead.


          Un-cool, rabbit. My tax dollars pay
          your salary.




After what has clearly been a series of these encounters,
Hopps repeatedly bangs her head on the steering wheel.


              (less convinced with each
               utterance)
          I am a real cop. I am a real cop. I
          am a real cop. I am a real cop...


          Hey!

Suddenly, a PIG bangs on the cart's window. Hopps startles.


          You! Bunny!


              
          Sir, if you have a grievance, you
          may contest your citation in
          traffic court.


          What're you talking about? My shop!
          It was just robbed! Look, he's
          getting away! Well are you a cop or
          not?

Hopps sees a WEASEL running with a bag of stolen goods.


              
          Oh, yes! Yes! Don't worry, sir, I
          got this!




Hopps jumps out and gives chase-- ditching her silly vest.




          Stop! Stop in the name of the law!


          Catch me if you can, Cottontail!

The chase is on. McHorn screeches up in his cop car.


          Whoa. Coming through!


          This is Officer McHorn, we got a 10-


Hopps slides across his hood.


          I got dibs! Officer Hopps, I am in
          pursuit!

Hopps chases the Weasel, who races through Savannah Central.
As Hopps advances, the Weasel ducks into... LITTLE RODENTIA.
Thanks to her small size, Hopps follows him in.


          You! Freeze!


              (arriving, but too big to
                enter)
          Hey! Metermaid! Wait for the real
          cops!




Hopps emerges in Little Rodentia, teeming with tiny rodents.


          Stop!

Hopps spots the Weasel, who's using two mouse cars as skates.
She chases after him, smashing through Little Rodentia. As
the Weasel jumps off the top of a mouse building, he knocks
it over, but Hopps is able to save them from crashing.

Resuming the chase, Hopps jumps off the building-- landing
precariously in the midst of a large group of mice.


          Oh! Oh, sorry! Coming through!
          `Scuse me! `Scuse me. Pardon...



Hopps locates Weaselton, who's safely making his escape on
the top of a tiny mouse train.


          Bon voyage, flat foot!

But Hopps won't quit. She takes a short cut and knocks him
off the train. Rodents scream and run amidst the chaos.


          Hey! Stop right there!

The Weasel throws an ornamental donut at Hopps.


          Have a donut, coppah!

But the donut misses and rolls towards some SHREWS coming out
of "Mousies."


          Ohmygawd, did you see those leopard
          print jeggings?
              (sees the donut about to
               kill her)
          Aaaaaaaaaaaagh!

But at the last second... Hopps stops it! Deep breath...


          I love your hair.


          Aw... thank you.

Meanwhile, the Weasel spots the bag he was stealing and
smugly picks it up, ready to leave.


          Come to papa...

Then out of nowhere, Hopps dumps the donut on his head.




The lobby is overflowing with ANIMALS filing MISSING MAMMAL
REPORTS. Clawhauser is dealing with an otter, MRS. OTTERTON.


          Okay, you're gonna have to be
          patient and wait in line just like
          everyone else, Mrs. Otterton, okay?



Just then: BAM! The Weasel  rolls through the front
door and hits Clawhauser's desk. It settles, revealing Hopps.


          I popped the weasel!

Behind her, Chief Bogo yells from the second floor.







Hopps sits in a big chair in front of Bogo, like a kid in the
principal's office. Bogo looks over a report.


          Abandoning your post, inciting a
          scurry, reckless endangerment of
          rodents... but to be fair, you did
          stop a master criminal from
          stealing two dozen... moldy onions.


          Hate to disagree with you, sir, but
          those aren't onions. Those are a
          crocus varietal called Midnicampum
          Holicithias. They're a Class C
          Botanical, sir. I grew up in a
          family where plant husbandry was
          kind of a thing.


          Shut your tiny mouth, now.


          Sir, I got the bad guy. That's my
          job.


          Your job is putting tickets on
          parked cars.


          Chief, uh, Mrs. Otterton's here to
          see you again.


          Not now.




          Okay, I just didn't know if you
          wanted to take it this time, she
          seems really upset--


          Not now!


          Sir, I don't want to be a meter
          maid... I wanna be a real cop.


          Do you think the Mayor asked what I
          wanted when he assigned you to me?


          But sir, if you--


          Life isn't some cartoon musical
          where you sing a little song and
          your insipid dreams magically come
          true. So let it go!

MRS. OTTERTON barges in, with Clawhauser trailing, wheezing.


          Chief Bogo please-- five minutes of
          your time. Please...


          I'm sorry, sir, I tried to stop
          her, she is super slippery. I gotta
          go sit down.


          Ma'am, as I've told you, we are
          doing everything we can...


          My husband has been missing for ten
          days. His name is Emmitt Otterton.


          Yes, I know.


          He's a florist. We have two
          beautiful children. He would never
          just disappear.

Mrs. Otterton reveals her own sweet little photo of Emmitt
with her and the family.




          Ma'am, our detectives are very
          busy.


          Please. There's got to be somebody
          to find my Em.


          Mrs. Otterton--


          I will find him.

Mrs. Otterton races over to Hopps and gives her a big hug of
relief. Bogo looks to Hopps, ready to explode.


          Oh, thank you! Bless you, bless you
          little bunny!
              
          Take this. Find my Emmitt. Bring
          him home to me and my babies.
          Please?

Bogo grunts and ushers Mrs. Otterton back outside.


          Mrs. Otterton? Please wait out
          here.


          Of course. Oh, thank you both so
          much.


          One second.

He closes the door and turns to Hopps, furious.


          You're fired.


          What? Why?!


          Insubordination. Now, I'm going to
          open this door and you're going to
          tell that otter you're a former
          meter maid with delusions of
          grandeur who will not be taking the
          case.



Bogo opens the door, to find... Bellwether, hugging Mrs.
Otterton.


          I just heard Officer Hopps is
          taking the case!


          Assistant Mayor Bellwether...


              
          The Mammal Inclusion Initiative is
          really starting to pay off! Mayor
          Lionheart is just gonna be so
          jazzed!


          No! No, let's not tell the mayor
          just yet--


          And I sent it, and it is done, so I
          did do that. All right, well I'd
          say the case is in good hands! Us
          little guys really need to stick
          together! Right?


          Like glue!


              
          Good one! Just call me if you ever
          need anything, okay? You've always
          got a friend at City Hall, Judy.
          Alright, bye bye!


          Thank you, ma'am.

Bogo forces a smile and closes the door, even more pissed.


          I will give you 48 hours.





          That's two days to find Emmitt
          Otterton.




          Okay.


          But, you strike out-- you resign.

Hopps is taken aback by that for a moment... then nods.


          Oh, uh... okay... deal.


          Splendid. Clawhauser will give you
          the complete case file.




Clawhauser places the Otterton file on his desk for Hopps.


          Here ya go! One missing otter!

Hopps opens the file. It's a single piece of paper. What?


          That's it?!


          Yikes! That is the smallest case
          file I've ever seen! Leads: none,
          witnesses: none-- and you're not in
          the computer system yet, so
          resources: none.
              
          I hope you didn't stake your career
          on cracking this one.

Clawhauser takes a bite of his donut and the crumbs land on a
picture in the file, drawing Hopps's attention to it.


          Okay.
              
          "Last known sighting..."

Hopps brushes away the crumbs, revealing a picture of Mr.
Otterton on the street. Clawhauser annoyingly slurps from a
soda bottle. Hopps squints at the picture, intrigued.


          Can I just borrow--
              
          Thank you.



Hopps uses Clawhauser's bottle to enlarge the picture. She
sees Mr. Otterton holding a PAWPSICLE.


          Pawpsicle.


          The murder weapon!


          Get your pawpsicle...


          Yeah, `cause that... What does that
          mean?


          It means I... have a lead.






We find Nick pushing a BABY STROLLER. HOPPS zooms up in her
traffic cart, smiling.


          Hi! Hello? It's me again!


          Hey, it's Officer Toot Toot.


              
          Ha-ha-ho, no actually it's Officer
          Hopps, and I'm here to ask you some
          questions about a case.


          What happened, meter maid? Did
          someone steal a traffic cone? It
          wasn't me.

Hopps looks ahead, Nick has gone around the corner. Hopps
pulls in front of Nick and sounds her siren.


          Hey, Carrots, you're gonna wake the
          baby, I gotta get to work.




          This is important, sir. I think
          your ten dollars worth of popsicles
          can wait.


          I make 200 bucks a day, fluff. 365
          days a year, since I was 12, and
          time is money, hop along.


          Please, just look at the picture.

Hopps holds up the traffic cam picture of the Otter.


          You sold Mr. Otterton that popsicle
          right? Do you know him?


          I know everybody. And I also know
          that somewhere there's a toy store
          missing its stuffed animal, so why
          don't you get back to your box.

Hopps' ears droop.


          Fine. Then we'll have to do this
          the hard way.

She puts a boot on the stroller.


          Did you just boot my stroller?


          Nicholas Wilde, you are under
          arrest.


          For what? Howting your feewings?


          Felony tax evasion.

Nick smile drops a bit.


          Yeah. 200 dollars a day... 365 days
          a year... since you were 12, that's
          two decades, so times twenty...
              




          ...which is one million four-
          hundred sixty thousand-- I think, I
          mean I am just a dumb bunny, but we
          are good at multiplying-- anyway,
          according to your tax forms...
              
          ...you reported let me see here:
          zero. Unfortunately, lying on a
          federal form is a punishable
          offense. Five years jail time.


          Well, it's my word against yours.

Hopps clicks a button on her CARROT PEN, which SPEAKS!


          "200 bucks a day, fluff. 365 days a
          year, since I was 12."


          Actually, it's your word against
          yours. And if you want this pen,
          you're going to help me find this
          poor missing otter or the only
          place you'll be selling popsicles
          is the prison cafeteria.
              
          It's called a hustle, sweetheart.

Nick is utterly speechless.


          She hustled you.
              
          She hustled you good! You're a cop
          now Nick, you're gonna need one of
          these! Have fun working with the
          fuzz!

THWAP! Finnick slaps his JUNIOR OFFICER STICKER on Nick.


          Start talking.


          I don't know where he is.
          I only saw where he went.


          Great, let's go.




          It's not exactly a place for a cute
          little bunny.


          Don't call me cute.
              
          Get in the car.


          Okay. You're the boss.




The Mystic Spring Oasis is new agey, full of incense, etc. A
meditating HIPPIE YAK sits with flies buzzing around his
head, matching the tone of his ohm. Hopps enters with Nick
and they approach the yak .


          Oooooooooohmmmmmmmm.
          Oooooooooooohmmmmmm.


          Hi, hello.

The yak continues his incessant chanting.


          Um, hello? Hello? HELLO?!

The yak finally shakes out of his trance and notices Hopps.


          Hello! My name is--


          Ooo, you know, I'm gonna hit the
          pause button right there, `cause
          we're all good on Bunny Scout
          Cookies.


          Uh, no... I'm Officer Hopps, ZPD.
          I'm looking for a missing mammal,
          Emmitt Otterton. Right here--
              
          --who may have frequented this
          establishment.

The Yak looks at Hopps' picture. His eyes go wide, as if he's
about to say something really important, and then:





              
          Yeah, Ol' Emmitt! Haven't seen him
          in a couple weeks. But hey, you
          should talk to his yoga instructor,
          I'd be happy to take you back.


          Oh, thank you so much, I'd
          appreciate that more than you can
          imagine. It would be such a big--
              
          You are naked!

The Yak comes around the counter and he IS naked.


          Huh? Oh for sure, we're a
          naturalist club.


          Yeah, in Zootopia anyone can be
          anything. These guys... they be
          naked.

Nick grins, Hopps isn't pleased.


          Nangi's just on the other side of
          the pleasure pool.

The Yak opens the doors to a POOL AREA, with tons of naked
animals sunning themselves, playing in the pool, etc. Hopps'
eyes nearly pop out of her head. Nick leans in.


          Does this make you uncomfortable?
          Because, if so, there's no shame in
          calling it quits.


          Yes there is.


          Boy, that's the spirit.




Nick revels in Hopps' discomfort over the nude animals
everywhere. Lots of nude animals. Yax leads them, oblivious.




          Yeah, some mammals say the
          naturalist life is weird, but you
          know what I say is weird? Clothes
          on animals! Here we go.

Nangi's engaging in a string of fairly evocative yoga poses.


          As you can see, Nangi's an
          elephant, so she'll totally
          remember everything. Hey Nangi,
          these dudes have some questions
          about Emmitt the Otter.


          Who?


          Uh, Emmitt Otterton? Been coming to
          your yoga class for like 6 years?


          I have no memory of this beaver.


          He's an otter actually.


          He was here a couple Wednesdays
          ago. `Member?


          Nope.


          Yeah, he was wearing a green cable-
          knit sweater vest, and new pair of
          corduroy slacks. Oh, and a paisley
          tie. Sweet Windsor knot. Real
          tight. Remember that Nangi?


          No.

Nangi doesn't want to be bothered. And she's useless. Yax is
a gold mine, though! Hopps writes down everything he says.


          Yeah, and we both walked him out
          and he got into this big ol' white
          car with a silver trim? Needed a
          tune up. The third cylinder wasn't
          firing. `Member that, Nangi?




          Nope.


          You didn't happen to catch the
          license plate number, did you?


          Oh, for sure. It was 29THD03.


          0, 3... Wow, this is a lot of great
          info, thank you.


          Told ya Nangi has a mind like a
          steel trap. I wish I had a memory
          like an elephant.




Nick and Hopps emerge.


          Well, I had a ball. You are welcome
          for the clue. And seeing as how any
          moron can run a plate, I will take
          that pen and bid you adieu.

As Nick reaches to take it, Hopps realizes something and
leaves him hanging.


          The plate... I can't run a plate...
              
          I'm not in the system yet.


          Give me the pen please.

Hopps gets an idea...


              
          What was it you said? "Any moron
          can run a plate?" Gosh... if only
          there were a moron around who were
          up to the task...


          Rabbit, I did what you asked, you
          can't keep me on the hook forever.




          Not forever. Why, I only have 36
          hours left to solve this case. So
          can you run the plate or not?


          Actually, I just remembered I have
          a pal at the DMV...




They arrive at the DMV, the "Department of Mammal Vehicles."


          Flash is the fastest guy in there,
          you need something done, he's on
          it.


          I hope so, we are really fighting
          the clock and every minute counts.
              
          Wait. They're all sloths?!

Unfortunately, every mammal working there is a... SLOTH.
INSERT: SLOTH EMPLOYEES taking extraordinary amounts of time
to do the simplest of tasks-- stapling, stamping, etc.


          You said this was going to be
          quick!


              
          What? Are you saying that because
          he's a sloth, he can't be fast? I
          thought in Zootopia anyone could be
          anything.

Nick smiles. Hopps doesn't. They head to Flash's station.


          Flash, Flash, hundred yard dash!
          Buddy, it's nice to see ya.

Flash doesn't respond. Beat.


          Nice to...
               
          see you...
               
          too.



Hopps looks like she's going to die.


           Hey Flash, I'd love ya to meet my
           friend-- uh, darlin' I've forgotten
           your name.


               
           Officer Judy Hopps, ZPD.
               
           How are ya?

Flash doesn't respond... then...


           I am... doing... just...


           Fine?


           ...as well... as... I can... be.
           What...


               
           Hang in there.


           ...can I... do...


           Well, I was hoping you could run a
           plate--


           For you...


           Well, I was hoping you could--


           ...today.

Hopps pauses-- cautiously optimistic that he's finished.


           Well, I was hoping you could run a
           plate for us. We are in a really
           big hurry.

Beat.   Beat.




          Sure.    What's the... plate...





          ...Number?

Hopps takes a breath.





              





















          Mmhmm. 0, 3.







Flash is just about to say three, but...


          Hey Flash, wanna hear a joke?


          No!




          Sure.


          What do you call a three humped
          camel?


          I don't... know...
              
          What... do... you call... a...


          Three humped camel.


          Three humped... camel?


          Pregnant.

Nick laughs at his own joke. Flash doesn't react, then
finally raises his head with a smile and....


          Ha... ha... ha... ha...


          Ha, ha, yes very funny, very funny,
          can we please just focus on the
          task--

Flash slowly reaches over to the sloth next to him.


          Hey... Priscilla...


          Oh no!


          Yes... Flash?


          What... do...


          No!


          You call... a...




          A three humped camel? Pregnant!
          Okay, great, we got it, please just-



          Three... humped...


          Aggggggghhhhhhh--




A slow DOT-MATRIX printer spits out the address for CAR



          Here...


          Yeah, yeah, yeah... thank you!


          You... go.


              
          29THD03-- it's registered to...
          Tundratown Limo Service? A limo
          took Otterton, and the limo's in
          Tundratown-- it's in Tundratown!


          Way to hustle, bud. I love ya. I
          owe ya.


          Hurry, we gotta beat the rush hour
          and--




They go outside. It's night.







Nick and Hopps reach LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISE CAR SERVICE. Hopps
tries to open the lock.




          Closed. Great.


          Mm. And I will betcha you don't
          have a warrant to get in. Hm? Darn
          it. It's a bummer.

There's a big gated parking lot which is chained shut... but
they can see a few limos parking inside, covered in snow.


          You wasted the day on purpose.


          Madam, I have a fake badge. I would
          never impede your pretend
          investigation.


          It's not a pretend investigation!
          Look, see--
              (showing picture of
               Otterton)
          See him? This otter is missing.


          Well then they should have gotten a
          real cop to find him.


          What is your problem? Does seeing
          me fail somehow make you feel
          better about your own sad,
          miserable life?

Nick considers this for a moment.


          It does. One hundred percent.
              
          Now... since you're sans warrant, I
          guess we're done?

Hopps considers this and sighs, defeated.


          Fine. We are done. Here's your pen.

Hopps then casually throws it over the fence behind her.


          Hey!
                 




          First off, you throw like a bunny,
          second, you're a very sore loser.
              
          See ya later, Officer Fluff, so sad
          this is over, I wish I could've
          helped more.

Nick jumps down onto the other side, but just as he reaches
for the pen, Hopps is suddenly right there and snatches it.


          The thing is, you don't need a
          warrant if you have probable cause,
          and I'm pretty sure I saw a shifty
          low-life climbing the fence, so
          you're helping plenty. Come on.

Hopps cheerfully heads off. Nick watches her, not quite
smiling, but he's starting to respect his opponent.




Hopps wipes snow off a back bumper: LICENSE PLATE 29THD03.


          29THD03... this is it.




They open the big door, which looks like it belongs on a
refrigerator. As they snoop around, Hopps uses tweezers to
pick up a clump of fur.


          Polar bear fur.


              



          What? What?!

Hopps looks up, only to see Nick holding some JERRY VOLE CDs.


          The Velvety Pipes of Jerry Vole!
          But on CD? Who still uses CDs?

As Hopps rolls her eyes and goes back to collecting clues,
Nick lowers the back partition and his eyes go wide.




          Carrots...? If your otter was
          here... he had a very bad day.

Hopps' flashlight reveals CLAW MARKS covering the back seat.


          Those are... claw marks. You ever
          seen anything like this?


          No.

Through the fog on the floor Hopps spots a wallet.


          Oh, wait. Look.

They slink back into the back seat. Hopps opens up the wallet
to find a drivers license for Mr. Otterton.


          This is him. Emmitt Otterton. He
          was definitely here. What do you
          think happened?

Nick spots a cocktail glass... it's etched with a "B."


          Well, now wait a minute...
              
          Polar bear fur... Rat Pack music...
          fancy cup...
              
          I know whose car this is. We gotta
          go!


          Why? Whose car is it?

Nick tries to put everything back the way he found it.


          The most feared crime boss in
          Tundratown. They call him Mr. Big
          and he does not like me, so we
          gotta go!


          I'm not leaving, this is a crime
          scene.




          Well, it's gonna be an even bigger
          crime scene if Mr. Big finds me
          here, so we're leaving right now!

Nick ushers Hopps to the door, but opens it to find two big



              
          Raymond! And, is that Kevin?! Long
          time no see. And speaking of no
          see, how about you forget you saw
          me? Huh? For old time's sake?

The polar bears grab Nick and Hopps by their throats...


          That's a no.

...and yank them off screen.




VROOM! A car whizzes by. Inside, Nick and Hopps sit nervously
in the back seat, sandwiched between the polar bears-- one of
whom casually scrolls through Zoogle Photos on his phone.


          What did you do that made Mr. Big
          so mad at you?


              
          I uh, I may have sold him a very
          expensive wool rug... that was made
          from the fur of a... skunk's butt.


              
          Oh, sweet cheese and crackers.

Pull out to reveal the car passing through the security gate
of a residential compound. A POLAR BEAR GUARD lets them in.




Nick and Hopps are shoved into a room that's right out of The
Godfather. A POLAR BEAR enters...




              
          Is that Mr. Big?


                
          No.

Now an even BIGGER POLAR BEAR enters...


          What about him? Is that him?


                
          No.

...and then another. The BIGGEST POLAR BEAR yet...


          That's gotta be him.


          Stop talking stop talking stop
          talking--

The huge polar bear growls at Nick, then reveals a tiny chair
upon which sits... a TEENY, TINY ARCTIC SHREW... this is MR.
BIG. He sounds like Marlon Brando sped up to 78 rpm.


          Mr. Big, sir, this is a simple
          misunder-

Mr. Big holds out a TINY FINGER for NICK to KISS HIS RING.
Nick painstakingly does so.


          This is a simple misunderstanding.

Mr. Big motions for Nick to shut up.


          You come here unannounced... on the
          day my daughter is to be married?


          Well actually we were brought here
          against our will, so...
              
          Point is, I did not know it was
          your car, and I certainly did not
          know about your daughter's wedding.




          I trusted you, Nicky... I welcomed
          you into my home... we broke bread
          together... Gram-mama made you her
          cannoli. And how did you repay my
          generosity? With a rug... made from
          the butt of a skunk. A skunk butt
          rug. You disrespected me. You
          disrespected my gram-mama who I
          buried in that skunk butt rug. I
          told you never to show your face
          here again, but here you are,
          snooping around with this...
              
          What are you, a performer? What's
          with the costume?


          Sir, I am a c--


          Mime! She is a mime. This mime,
          cannot speak. You can't speak if
          you're a mime.


          No. I am a cop. And I'm on the
          Emmitt Otterton case, and my
          evidence puts him in your car, so
          intimidate me all you want, I'm
          going to find out what you did to
          that otter if it's the last thing I
          do.

Mr. Big considers this and makes that little grunt.


          Then I have only one request: say
          hello to Gram-mama. Ice `em!

The Polar Bears snatch Nick and Hopps.


          Whoa-- I didn't see nothing-- I'm
          not saying nothing--


          And you never will--

The polar bears open a hidden door on the floor, revealing an
icy pool beneath.




          Please! No no no! If you're mad at
          me about the rug I've got more
          rugs!

Nick and Hopps are about to be dumped in, when--


          Oh, Daddy, it's time for our dance.
              (sees them trying to kill
               Nick)
          What did we say? No icing anyone at
          my wedding!


          I have to, baby. Daddy has to.
              
          Ice `em.

Nick and Hopps scream and--


          Wait. WAIT! She's the bunny that
          saved my life yesterday. From that
          giant donut.


          This bunny?


          Yeah. Hi!


          Hi.
              
          I love your dress.


          Aw, thank you.

Mr. Big motions for the Polar Bears to put Hopps down.


          Put `em down.
              
          You have done me a great service.
          I will help you find the otter. I
          will take your kindness... and pay
          it forward.

Hopps and Mr. Big kiss on the cheeks. Nick stares at them...
What is happening?





A lavish celebration full of arctic animals dancing. We find
Nick and Hopps at the head table, next to Mr. Big. They all
eat TINY pieces of WEDDING CAKE.


          Otterton is my florist. He's like a
          part of the family. He had
          something important he wanted to
          discuss. That's why I sent that car
          to pick him up. But he never
          arrived.


          Because he was attacked.


          No... he attacked.


          Otterton?


          Otterton. He went crazy. Ripped up
          the car, scared my driver half to
          death and disappeared into the
          night.


          He's a sweet little otter.


          My child, we may be evolved... but
          deep down we are still animals.

Nick and Hopps trade a worried glance. OVER THE FOLLOWING WE



          You want to find Otterton... talk
          to the driver of the car. His
          name's Manchas, lives in the
          Rainforest District. Only he can
          tell you more.




Nick and Hopps make their way across a mossy rope bridge high
above the forest floor. It leads to a moss-covered apartment.





At the door of the DRIVER'S APARTMENT, they ring the bell.


          Mr. Manchas? Judy Hopps, ZPD. We
          just want to know what happened to
          Emmitt Otterton.

Beat. The door creaks open.


          You should be asking... what
          happened to me.

The door opens to the chain, revealing... MANCHAS is... a
HUGE JAGUAR-- but he's been badly beaten up. He has a black
eye, and a scratches. Nick and Hopps are taken aback.


          Whoa. A teensy otter... did that?


          What... happened?

Off Manchas's look, we






Manchas is driving when he's attacked from the back seat.


          He was an animal... down on all
          fours... he was a savage.

The car spins out. Emmitt growls at Manchas then runs off.







              
          There was no warning, he just kept
          yelling about the "night howlers."
          Over and over, "the night
          howlers..."

Nick and Hopps share a subtle look-- they have no idea what
"night howlers" are.




          Oh. So you know about the night
          howlers too? Good, good, good.
          Because the night howlers are
          exactly what we are here to talk
          about.
              
          Right?


          Yep. So, uh, you just open the door
          and tell us what you know and we
          will tell you what we know. Okay?


              
          Okay.

Manchas closes the door and starts to unlock a series of
deadbolts. Judy gives Nick an impressed look.


          Clever fox.

There's a commotion inside, followed by a scream.


          Mr. Manchas?

The door creaks open just an inch. Nick and Hopps seem
startled... Hopps slowly pushes the door open, revealing
Manchas in the center of the room, hunched over and grunting.


          Buddy?


          Are you... okay?

Hopps looks at Manchas.

RAAAGH!!! Manchas turns, right at them. His eyes are dilated,
he's turned savage! He's poised to pounce on Nick and Hopps.


          Run. RUN!

The Jaguar tears after them, he's deranged, primal. Nick and
Hopps run! The jaguar is closing in.


          What is wrong with him?!




          I don't know!!

Nick and Hopps run across the bridge. Manchas closes in.


          Jump!

They jump off the bridge to a lower branch. They duck into a
hollow log and Manchas follows them.


              
          Head down!

Hopps frantically picks up her police radio.


          Officer Hopps to dispatch!




We find Clawhauser showing a handcuffed PERP a video on his
phone of pop star Gazelle singing and dancing. A RED LIGHT
blinks on the desk phone, but Clawhauser ignores it.


          Are you familiar with Gazelle?
          Greatest singer of our lifetime--
          angel with horns-- okay, hold on,
          keep watching. Who's that beside
          her? Who is it?

Reveal: Clawhauser is dancing on stage with Gazelle.


          Wow, you are one hot dancer...
              



              
          It's me! Did you think it was real?
          It looks so real! It's not. It's
          just a new app.
              (finally notices ringing
               phone)
          Hold on a second--

Clawhauser clicks the speaker button and--



                    Blue Rev.                   62.




RAAGH! Manchas takes a swipe at Nick.


          Clawhauser, listen to me! We have a
          10-91! Jaguar gone savage! Vine and
          Tu-junja!


          It's Tujunga!

As they emerge from the log, Hopps slips, dropping her radio.


          Okay, we're sending back up! Hopps?


Nick and Hopps run, sliding around a corner. Ahead is a
gondola station.


          There! Head to the skytrams!

They run to the gondolas. Hopps darts out of Manchas' way,
but slips and is headed off the platform when she manages to
grab on-- dangling from the edge. Nick searches for her...


          Get in! Carrots? Carrots!

He tries to hold on to the gondola for Hopps, who is
struggling to pull herself back onto the platform.


          Go!

As the gondola pulls away, Nick tries to stop it to no avail.


          No, no, no!

Nick backs up... the jaguar stalks him.


          Buddy, one predator to another--                      *

The jaguar charges, but before it gets Nick-- clank! It's       *
yanked back in place. We see a HANDCUFF on its back paw,
attached to a metal post. Hopps cuffed him!




          Now, I can tell you're a little
          tense, so I'm just gonna give you a
          little personal space--

The jaguar thrashes, knocking Nick and Hopps over the edge.
Hopps barely grabs a vine, but struggles to hold Nick in the
other hand. As Manchas growls at them from above, Nick looks
at the abyss below. Hopps looks around, her mind racing.


          Rabbit, whatever you do, do not let
          go!


          I'm gonna let go!


          No, you what? No, I said-- listen--
          noooo!


          One, two--

Hopps lets go, swinging them over to a netting of vines, kind
of on top of each other. They can't believe they're alive.
They look at each other, stunned, relieved...


          Carrots. You saved my life.


          Well. That's what we do at the

              
          Deeeeeeeeeeeee.....

Nick and Hopps plummet. They are about to hit the ground, but
a vine attached to their legs stops them right before impact.

Woo! A convoy of police arrive, screeching in front of them.
Out steps... Bogo. Hopps smiles, the cavalry has arrived.


          Well, this should be good.




Hopps leads the cops up to the canopy, full of confidence.


          I thought this was just a missing
          mammal case, but it's way bigger.




          Mr. Otterton did not just
          disappear. I believe he and this
          jaguar, they... went savage, Sir.


              
          Savage? This isn't the Stone Age,
          Hopps. Animals don't go savage.


          I thought so too, `til I saw this:

Hopps pulls back some leaves to reveal: the jaguar is gone.
There is no sign of him... or his handcuffs. It's like it
never happened. Hopps' eyes go wide.


          What? He was right here...


              
          The "savage" jaguar.


          Sir, I know what I saw-- he almost
          killed us.


          Or maybe any aggressive predator
          looks savage to you rabbits.
              
          Let's go.


          Wait-- Sir, I'm not the only one
          who saw him!
              
          Nick!

Hopps turns to Nick, but before he can explain:


               
          You think I'm going to believe a
          fox?


          Well he was a key witness and I
          enlisted--


              
          Two days to find the otter...




          or you quit... that was the deal.
          Badge.

Bogo extends his arm, waiting for Hopps to hand it over.


          But, Sir, we...


          Badge.

Hopps looks at Bogo, then looks at her badge, she's about to
reach for it, when...


          Uh, no.

Bogo stops, and glares at Nick.


          What did you say, fox?


          Sorry, what I said was, "no." She
          will not be giving you that badge.
          Look, you gave her a clown vest and
          a three-wheel joke-mobile and two
          days to solve a case you guys
          haven't cracked in two weeks? Yeah,
          no wonder she needed to get help
          from a fox, none of you guys were
          gonna help her, were you?

Hopps looks at Nick, stunned he's sticking up for her.


          Here's the thing Chief, you gave
          her the 48 hours, so technically we
          still have 10 left to find our Mr.
          Otterton... and that's exactly what
          we're gonna do, so if you'll excuse
          us... we have a very big lead to
          follow and a case to crack. Good
          day.

Nick guides Hopps to a PASSING GONDOLA, motioning her in.


          Officer Hopps?

The gondola pulls away, leaving Bogo and the rest of the
police watching, flabbergasted.





Hopps and Nick both stare straight ahead.


          Thank you.


          Never let `em see that they get to
          you.

Hopps looks at Nick, a little surprised. Nick looks out.


          So, things do get to you...


          No... I mean, not anymore. But I
          was small and emotionally
          unbalanced like you once.


          Har-har.


              (retreating into the
               memory)
          No, it's true. I think was 8, or
          maybe 9, and all I wanted to do was
          join the Junior Ranger Scouts.






YOUNG NICK, tiny and cherubic, looks in the mirror. We see
MOTHER's paws tying the scout kerchief around his neck.


          ...so, my mom scraped together
          enough money to buy me a brand new
          uniform because, by God, I was
          gonna fit in.




Young Nick bounds down the sidewalk and up the stairs.


          Even if I was the only predator in
          the troop--





Young Nick enters a church basement, spots a GROUP OF PREY
KIDS, all in scout uniforms. They wave him over.


          ...the only fox.


          Okay, Nick!


          I was gonna be part of a pack.


          Ready for initiation?


          Yeah! Pretty much born ready.

They high five Nick. It looks promising and fun.


          I was so proud.

Suddenly, a BIG KID turns off the lights. Other KIDS switch
on FLASHLIGHTS, shining them on Nick like gestapo spotlights.


          Okay. Now raise your right hand and
          deliver the oath.


          I, Nicholas Wilde, promise to be
          brave, loyal, helpful, and
          trustworthy.


          Even though you're a fox?


          What?

Then, a bunch of KID ANIMALS tackle Nick. Soon, all of the
animals pile on, kicking and shoving him.


          No! What did I do wrong, you guys?!
          No! Please tell me, what did I do
          wrong?!

With Nick pinned, the primary mean kid straddles him. Someone
hands him a MUZZLE. The mean kid snaps it on Nick's snout.




              
          What did I do?!


          If you thought we would ever trust
          a fox without a muzzle, you're even
          dumber than you look.

Nick breaks free from the kids. Scrambles away from them in
fright. As they laugh, he races out the door.


          Aw, is he gonna cry?

Once out sight, Nick panics as he struggles to remove the
muzzle. It won't come off. Finally-- painfully-- he pulls it
off and throws it to the ground. He collapses, weeping.





          I learned two things that day. One,
          I was never gonna let anyone see
          that they got to me.

Hopps looks at Nick, who avoids eye contact.


          ...And two?


          If the world's only gonna see a fox
          as shifty and untrustworthy,
          there's no point in trying to be
          anything else.


          Nick, you are so much more than
          that...

Hopps touches Nick's arm as the gondola pierces the clouds.
The city at dawn comes into view. It's gotten too real for
Nick. He abruptly changes the subject.


          Boy, look at that traffic down
          there.
              
          How about we go out to Chuck in
          Traffic Central-- Chuck, how are
          things looking on the Jam Cams?




          Nick, I'm glad you told me...


              
          The Jam Cams...!


          Seriously, it's okay...


          No-n-shh-shush! There are traffic
          cameras everywhere. All over the
          canopy. Whatever happened to that
          jaguar--


          The traffic cams would have caught
          it!


          Bingo!

Hopps gives him a chuck on the arm, impressed.


          Pretty sneaky, Slick.


          However. If you didn't have access
          to the system before, I doubt Chief
          Buffalo Butt is gonna let you into
          it now.


              
          No... But I have a friend at City
          Hall who might.




We find BELLWETHER trying to balance a stack of binders while
struggling to keep pace with Mayor Lionheart, who is walking
quickly in front of her.


          Sir? If we could just review these
          very important--
               
          Sir?

She almost steps on a LITTLE MOUSE LADY.




          Ooo, I'm so sorry... sir?!


          Okay. I heard you, Bellwether. Just
          take care of it!
              (setting another binder
               atop her stack)
          Please. And clear my afternoon, I'm
          going out.


          No, no! But, sir, you do have a
          meeting with Herds and Grazing...
          sir, if I could just--

He continues through a door. Bellwether tries to follow, but
the door shuts on her, spilling the binders to the floor.


          Oh, mutton chops.

As Bellwether picks up her mess, Hopps and Nick appear.


          Assistant Mayor Bellwether? We need
          your help.




We're in Bellwether's cramped little office. Nick and Hopps
hover over her while she sits at her computer.


          We just need to get into the
          traffic cam database.

Nick subtly touches Bellwether's wool puff.


              
          So fluffy!


          Hey!


          Sheep never let me this close.


          You can't just touch a sheep's
          wool...




It's like cotton candy.            Stop it!

Judy swats Nick, but accidentally hits Bellwether's puff.


          Where to?


          Rainforest District, Vine and
          Tujunga.

ANGLE ON the computer screen.


          There! Traffic cams for the whole
          city. This is so exciting,
          actually. Well, you know, I never
          get to do anything this important.


          But you're the Assistant Mayor of
          Zootopia.


          Oh, I'm more of a glorified
          secretary. I think Mayor Lionheart
          just wanted the sheep vote...
              
          But he did give me that nice mug.

She motions to a mug that reads World's Greatest Dad
Assistant Mayor.


          Feels good to be appreciated.


          Smellwether?!

Bellwether cringes.


          That's a fun little name he likes
          to use. I called him Lionfart once.
          He did not care for that, let me
          tell you. It was not a good day for
          me.
              
          Yes, sir?


          I thought you were going to cancel
          my afternoon?!




          Oh, dear. I better go --
              
          Let me know what you find. It was
          really nice for me to be--


          While we're young, Smellwether!

Bellwether finally opens her big heavy door and leaves.


          You think when she goes to sleep
          she counts herself?


          Shush. Okay, traffic cams...
              
          Tujunga, Tujunga... we're in.

Nick and Hopps watch the footage from the night before. We
can see the jaguar going nuts. Then a BLACK VAN skids up, and
some WOLVES hop out.


          Who are these guys?


          Timberwolves. Look at these
          dumdums.

The Wolves suddenly capture the jaguar with a net. Judy
GASPS, shocked. Nick is unfazed.


          Betcha a nickel one of em's gonna
          howl.

The wolves howl...


          And there it is. What is it with
          wolves and the howling? It's like--


              
          Howlers! Night howlers! That's what
          Manchas was afraid of... wolves!
          The wolves are the night howlers.
          If they took Manchas...


          ...I bet they took Otterton too.




          All we gotta do is find out where
          they went.

She clicks the monitor... but as the wolves drive off, they
disappear through a tunnel and don't come out the other side.


          Wait. Where'd they go?


          You know, if I wanted to avoid
          surveillance because I was doing
          something illegal-- which I never
          have-- I would use the maintenance
          tunnel 6B... which would put them
          out...

He clicks on another camera. Nothing... then... the wolves
emerge in the van.


          ...right there.

Hopps looks at Nick, impressed.


          Well, look at you, Junior
          Detective. You know, I think you'd
          actually make a pretty good cop.


          How dare you.

Hopps goes back to clicking... we track the wolves through
alleys and back roads.


          Acacia alley... Ficus underpass...
          South Canyon...


          They're heading out of town...
          Where does that road go?




The imposing CLIFFSIDE ASYLUM sits on the edge of a
waterfall. Nick and Hopps, hidden on the side of the road,
spy from a hundred yards away.

Nick and Hopps sneak up to the guard gate, where TWO WOLVES
are stationed.



Using elaborate hand signals, Nick motions he's going to
sneak past first. He gets around the gate, but as he gets
close... a wolf sniffs the air... he's onto him.

Nick reaches around and grabs a piece of wood to use as a
weapon. The wolf moves toward Nick... but before he reaches
him... Ooooooooooo!

A distant howl grabs his attention. It's Hopps, cupping her
mouth to make the howl sound distant. The wolf hears it and
can't help but howl as well. Another guard approaches.


          Gary, quit it, you're gonna start a
          howl.


          I didn't start it.
              
          Oooooooo!


          Oooooooooo!

More wolves start to howl. Nick looks at Hopps, impressed.


          Come on!

Nick and Hopps use the distraction to jump the fence and
sneak into the complex.


          You are a clever bunny.

Above, they notice a drainage pipe leading into the building.




Nick and Hopps emerge from the drain pipe into the creepy
asylum. They're in a large, cavernous room, full of old
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT. It's like a combination of an old hospital
and a turn-of-the-century zoo.


          It looks like this was a hospital.

Judy shines her light down a corridor, at the end of which is
a metal door with a blue light shining within. Nick nears the
door, about to open it... the tension builds and then...




               
          You know, after you, you're the
          cop.




Hopps cautiously pushes the door open to reveal: a room with
modern medical equipment. Nick pops up behind her.


          Okay. All clear.

Hopps rolls her eyes and cautiously enters and looks around.


          All this equipment is brand new...


          Carrots...?

Nick points to the ground, which is scuffed with CLAW MARKS.


          Claw marks...


          Yeah. Huge, huge, claw marks. I
          mean, what kind of--

RAAGH! A SAVAGE TIGER emerges behind the glass of a nearby
cage, startling Nick and sending him running to Hopps.

Hopps swivels her flashlight to reveal: dozens of reflective
eyes. Nick and Hopps make their way down a long corridor of
cages, looking for the jaguar.


          Mr. Manchas.

He's still feral, on all fours and pacing in a cell. They
continue on, passing three, four, five, cages until finally,
in the last cage: a FERAL OTTER. It's EMMITT OTTERTON.


          It's him. We found our otter.
              
          Mr. Otterton, my name is Officer
          Judy Hopps. Your wife sent me to
          find you. We're gonna get you out
          of here now.

Otterton screeches at her and lunges toward the glass.




          Or not. Guess he's in no rush to
          get home to the Missus.

Hopps looks back down the corridor of cells, counting.


          ...11, 12, 13, 14. Not including
          Manchas it's 14...
              
          Chief Bogo handed out 14 Missing
          Mammal files... They're all here.
          All the missing mammals are right
          here.

Before she can respond-- CLICK! A door starts to open, Nick
and Hopps retreat, stuck next to a DARK CELL.


          Enough! I don't want excuses,
          Doctor, I want answers.

Reveal: Mayor Lionheart berating the BADGER DOCTOR by his
side. He looks serious, intense, tired.


          Mayor Lionheart, please, we're
          doing everything we can.

Hopps whips out her phone, starts recording.


          Really? Cuz I got a dozen and a
          half animals here who've gone off
          the rails crazy-- and you can't
          tell me why. Now, I'd call that
          awfully far from doing everything.


          Sir, it may be time to consider
          their biology.


          What? What do you mean biology?


          The only animals going savage are
          predators. We cannot keep it a
          secret. We need to come forward.




          Hmm... Great idea. Tell the public.
          And how do you think they're gonna
          feel about their mayor, who is a
          lion?! I'll be ruined!


          Well, what does Chief Bogo say?


          Chief Bogo doesn't know. And we are
          going to keep it that way.

Beep-beep-beep-- Hopps' parents call in. She frantically
tries to silence her phone.


          Someone's here!


          Sir, you need to go, now!
              
          Security! Sweep the area!

AN ALARM SOUNDS. The door to the cell Hopps and Nick are in
triggers shut. They notice WOLVES approaching.


          Great! We're dead. We're dead.
          That's it. I'm dead. You're dead.
          Everybody's dead.

This gives Hopps an idea. She looks at the HUGE TOILET.


          Can you swim?


          What? Can I swim? Yes, I can swim.
          Why?

The Wolves storm in, searching for the intruders... and see
the swirling water of a toilet disappearing down the drain.

Hopps and Nick fly through the water slide like tubes of the
sewer system, cascading over a waterfall. Both scream. They
land in the river below. Nick pop up first. He looks
desperately for Judy.


          Carrots?! Hopps?! Judy?!

She emerges, gasping for breath, holding up the bagged phone.




          We gotta tell Bogo!




CLOSE ON BOGO'S PHONE: Gazelle and Bogo dance on stage. It's
the same app Clawhauser used earlier.


          Wow, you are one hot dancer...
              


Bogo is dancing along when, suddenly, Clawhauser bursts in.


          Chief Bogo!


              
          Not now!


          Wait, is that Gazelle?


                (struggling to silence his
                 phone)
          No!


          I am Gazelle, and you are one hot
          dancer.


          You have the app too?!
              
          Oh, jeeeeez!


          Clawhauser, can't you see I'm
          working on the missing mammal
          cases?!


          Oh, yes of course! About that,
          sir... Officer Hopps just called...
          She found all of `em.

Bogo's eyes widen.


          Wow! I'm impressed.





Cop cars and helicopters surround the asylum. Hopps, flanked
by Bogo and other COPS, leads Lionheart out of the building.


          Mayor Lionheart, you have the right
          to remain silent. Anything--


          You don't understand. I was trying
          to protect the city.


          You were just trying to protect
          your job.


          No. Listen, we still don't know why
          this is happening. It could destroy
          Zootopia.


          You have the right to remain
          silent. Anything you say can and
          will be used against you in a court
          of law...

Nick hangs back, proudly flashing his Junior Detective badge.




Bogo addresses the press. Behind him, POSTERS of the Savage
Animals-- each one MUZZLED.


          Ladies and Gentlemammals... 14
          mammals went missing and all 14
          have been found by our newest
          recruit, who will speak to you in a
          moment. But first, let me remind
          you--

Bogo's voice trails off in the background as Nick and Hopps
watch from the side. Hopps bites her nails, nervous.


          Rrrgh. I am so nervous...


          Okay, press conference 101: You
          wanna look smart?




          Answer their question with your own
          question and then answer that
          question. Like this, "Excuse me.
          Officer Hopps, what can you tell us
          about the case?"
              
          "Well, was this a tough case? Yes.
          Yes it was." You see?


          You should be there with me. We did
          this together.


          Well, am I a cop? No. No, I am not.


          Funny you should say that, because
          I've been thinking... it would be
          nice to have a partner.

She hands Nick an APPLICATION. Then-- click-- she holds out
the carrot pen to him.


          Here. In case you need something to
          write with.


          At twenty-two hundred hours, we
          found all these missing animals...

Bellwether gestures to Judy to come up.


          Officer Hopps, it's time.

As Hopps goes, Nick smiles. He's touched...


          So now, I'll turn things over to
          the officer who cracked the case.
          Officer Judy Hopps.

Hopps takes a deep breath and steps up to the dais.


          Officer Hopps! / Over here! / Here!


                 
          Yes?




          What can you tell us about the
          animals that went savage?


          Well, the animals in question...
              
          Are they all different species?
          Yes. Yes they are.

Nick smiles, gives a thumbs up.


          Okay, so what is the connection?


          Well, all we know is that they are
          all members of the predator family.


          So, predators are the only ones
          going savage?


          That is accu-- Yes, that is
          accurate. Yes...


          Wow. Why is that happening?


          We still don't know--

More disappointed rumbling.


              
          Ah, it may have something to do
          with biology.

On Nick-- huh? The press reacts, too... big time.


          What do you mean by that?


          A biological component. You know,
          something in their DNA...


              
          In their DNA? Can you elaborate on
          that, please?




          Yes. What I mean is, thousands of
          years ago... um... predators
          survived through their aggressive
          hunting instincts. For whatever
          reason, they seem to be reverting
          back to their primitive, savage
          ways.

Nick doesn't like what he's hearing.


          Of course they did.

Nick looks at the posters of the muzzled animals and shakes
his head, disbelieving. FLASH BACK to his memory of being
muzzled as a child.


              
          Aw, is he gonna cry.


              (on Nick, as flashback
               ends)
          Officer Hopps, could it happen
          again?


          It is possible. So we must be
          vigilant. And we at the ZPD are
          prepared and are here to protect
          you...

This sends the Press into an absolute frenzy.


          Will more mammals go savage? / What
          is being done to protect us? / Have
          you considered a mandatory
          quarantine on predators?

Bellwether steps in, eager to put an end to the questions.


          Okay, thank you Officer Hopps, uh,
          that's all the time that we have.
          No more questions...

Bellwether ushers Hopps off stage.


          Was I okay?




          Oh, you did fine.

Hopps walks across the lobby to Nick, completely unaware that
she just started a controversy.


              
          That went so fast! I didn't get a
          chance to mention you or say
          anything about how we--


              
          Oh, I think you said plenty.


          What do you mean?


              
          Clearly, there's a biological
          component? These predators may be
          reverting back to their primitive,
          savage ways. Are you serious?


          I just stated the facts of the
          case. I mean, it's not like a bunny
          could go savage...


          Right. But a fox could? Huh?


          Nick, stop it. You're not like
          them.


          Oh, there's a them now?


          You know what I mean. You're not
          that kind of predator.


          The kind that needs to be muzzled?
          The kind that makes you think you
          need to carry around Fox Repellent?

Hopps sighs guiltily.




          Yeah, don't think I didn't notice
          that little item the first time we
          met.
               
          So let me ask you a question. Are
          you afraid of me?
               
          Do you think I might go nuts? Do
          you think I might go savage? Do you
          think I might try to... EAT YOU?!

He lunges, like he's going to bite her. She flinches and
unthinkingly puts her hand on the repellent.


              
          ...I knew it. Just when I thought
          somebody actually believed in me...

He shoves the application at her.


          Probably best if you don't have a
          predator as a partner.

As he walks away, he takes off the sticker badge, crumples it
and tosses it away.


          No. Nick. Nick!


          Officer Hopps! Were you just
          threatened by that predator?


          No. He's my friend.


          We can't even trust our own
          friends?


          That is not what I said! Please!


          Are we safe? / Have any other foxes
          gone savage?

But no one will listen. Not anymore.





Two ANCHORS sit in front of a graphic: TUNDRATOWN TRAGEDY.


          More bad news in this city gripped
          by fear.

News footage shows a CARIBOU being loaded into an ambulance.
Another shot shows a POLAR BEAR in a muzzle.


          A caribou is in critical condition,
          the victim of a mauling by a savage
          polar bear. This-- the 27th such
          attack-- comes just one week after
          ZPD Officer Judy Hopps connected
          the violence to traditionally
          predatory animals.


          Meanwhile, a peace rally organized
          by pop star, Gazelle, was marred by
          protest.

The news story cuts to footage of

THE PROTEST: Hopps is caught in the middle of the PROTESTERS,
trying to separate them.


          Go back to the forest, predator!


          I'm from the savannah!

GAZELLE gives a sound bite to a NEWS REPORTER.


          Zootopia is a unique place. It's a
          crazy, beautiful, diverse city
          where we celebrate our differences.
              (gestures to PROTESTERS in
               background)
          This is not the Zootopia I know.

Gazelle's interview plays as VO over a series of shots:

ON A SUBWAY: Hopps watches a MOTHER RABBIT bring her CHILD
close as a LION gets on the train.


          The Zootopia I know is better than
          this.




          We don't just blindly assign blame.
          We don't know why these attacks
          keep happening...



Mrs. Otterton watches her husband flail like a madman in a
padded room. Judy approaches her.


          ...but it is irresponsible to label
          all predators as savages.


          That's not my Emmitt.

On Hopps-- a look of exhaustion and distress. BACK ON
Gazzelle's interview--


          We cannot let fear divide us.
          Please-- give me back the Zootopia
          I love...




The broadcast plays from Hopps' desk computer. As she
watches, Bogo walks up behind her.


          Come on Hopps. The new Mayor wants
          to see us.


          The Mayor? Why?


          It would seem you've arrived.




Clawhauser sighs and closes his laptop. He loads it into a
box of his desk items. Hopps enters.


          Clawhauser? What're you doing?


          Um, they thought it would be better
          if a predator such as myself wasn't
          the first face you that you see
          when you walk into the ZPD.




            What?


            They're gonna move me to Records.
            It's downstairs. By the boiler.

Hopps' face falls. Bogo waits for her in the background.


            Hopps!

Off Hopps' heartbroken look, we






A PHOTO of a SMILING HOPPS. Wider to reveal: The photo is on
a PAMPHLET that reads, ZPD: Integrity. Honesty. Bravery.




Hopps looks at the pamphlet. Bellwether sits across from her
at her desk.


            Um... I don't understand.


            Our city is 90% prey, Judy. And
            right now they're just really
            scared. You're a hero to them. They
            trust you. And so that's why Chief
            Bogo and I want you to be the
            public face of the ZPD.

Bogo sits next to Hopps. She looks at the pamphlet again.


                
            I'm not... I'm not a hero. I came
            here to make the world a better
            place, but I think I broke it.


            Don't give yourself so much credit,
            Hopps. The world has always been
            broken. That's why we need good
            cops-- like you.




          With all due respect, sir, a good
          cop is supposed to serve and
          protect-- help the city. Not tear
          it apart.
              
          I don't deserve this badge.

She removes her badge...


          Hopps.


          Judy, you've worked so hard to get
          here. It's what you've wanted since
          you were a kid. You can't quit...


          Thank you for the opportunity.

Hopps sets her badge on the desk and walks out. Bellwether
and Bogo look at one another in shock and concern.






Hopps, with a thousand yard stare, works the carrot stand.
She wraps some carrots in a newspaper-- Headline: GROWING
UNREST DIVIDES CITY-- and hands them to a RABBIT FAMILY.


          A dozen carrots.


          Thanks!


          Have a nice day.


              
          Come on.

Hopps reads the paper as Stu and Bonnie approach, concerned.


          Hey there, Jude-- Jude the dude,
          remember that one? How we doin?


          I'm fine.




          You are not fine. Your ears are
          droopy.

Hopps remains fixed on the newspaper and lets out a sigh.


          Why did I think I could make a
          difference?


          Because you're a trier, that's why.


          You've always been a trier.


          Oh, I tried. And it made life so
          much worse for so many innocent
          predators.

Off-screen, BEEP-BEEP.


          Oh, not all of them, though. Speak
          of the devil. Right on time.

A truck pulls up. Its sign reads: GIDEON GREY'S GOOD BAKED
STUFF... With Fresh Produce From Hopps Family Farms.


          Is that... Gideon Grey?


          Yep. It sure is. We work with him
          now.


          He's our partner. And we never
          would have considered it had you
          not opened our minds.


          That's right. I mean, Gid's turned
          into one of the top pastry chefs in
          the tri-burrows.


          That's really cool, you guys.

GIDEON GREY, now paunchy, climbs out his truck.


          Gideon Grey. I'll be darned.




          Hey Judy-- I'd like to say I'm
          sorry for the way I behaved in my
          youth. I had a lotta self-doubt
          that manifested itself in the form
          of unchecked rage and aggression. I
          was a major jerk.


          Well, I know a thing or two about
          being a jerk...


          Anyhow-- I brought you all these
          pies.

He holds out some pies. KID BUNNIES come tearing across the
field, bee-lining for the pies. Stu shouts at the kids.


          Hey kids! Don't you run through
          that midnicampum holicithias!


              
          Whoa, whoa, whoa!


          Now there's a 4-dollar word, Mr. H.
          My family always just called them
          night howlers.

Wait. What?


          I'm sorry, what did you say?

Stu gestures to the flowers growing on the edge of the crops.


          Oh, Gid's talking about those
          flowers, Judy. I use `em to keep
          bugs off the produce. But I don't
          like the little ones going near `em
          on account of what happened to your
          Uncle Terry.


          Yeah, Terry ate one whole when we
          were kids and went completely nuts.


          He bit the dickens out of your
          mother.




              
          A bunny can go savage...

We stay on Hopps as she pieces it together.


          Savage? Well, that's a strong word.
          But it did hurt like the devil.


          Well sure it did. There's a sizable
          divot in your arm. I'd call that
          savage.


              
          Night howlers aren't wolves.
          They're flowers. The flowers are
          making the predators go savage.
          That's it! That's what I've been
          missing!

Hopps races away, then turns back.


          Oh, keys! Keys! Keys! Keys! Hurry!
          Come on! Thank you, I love you bye!

Stu tosses her the keys to his pick-up. Hopps jumps into the
truck, peels out, leaving Stu and Bonnie in the dust.


          You catch any of that, Bon?


          Not one bit.


          Well, that makes me feel a little
          better. I thought she was talking
          in tongues or something.




Hopps drives the farm truck to Finnick's van. She knocks.


          Who is it?


          I need to find Nick. Please.



Finnick gives her a reluctant look, then softens.




Hopps arrives at an underpass. She looks around, it's a
desolate, sad place.


          Nick? Nick!

There's Nick, sitting on a lawn chair under the bridge.


          Oh, Nick! Night howlers aren't
          wolves. They're toxic flowers. I
          think someone is targeting
          predators on purpose and making
          them go savage.


          Wow. Isn't that interesting.

He gets up, walks under the bridge. She follows.


          Wait! Wait, please-- I know you'll
          never forgive me. And I don't blame
          you. I wouldn't forgive me either.
          I was ignorant and irresponsible
          and small-minded... But predators
          shouldn't suffer because of my
          mistakes. I have to fix this, but I
          can't do it without you.

He sighs, but still won't look at her.


              
          And after we're done, you can hate
          me, and that'll be fine, because I
          was a horrible friend and I hurt
          you... and you can walk away
          knowing you were right all along, I
          really am just a dumb bunny.

It seems she lost him, then:


          I really am just a dumb bunny. I
          really am just a dumb bunny.

Hopps cocks her head. Huh? Nick turns to her... holding her
recording pen.




          Don't worry, Carrots, I'll let you
          erase it... in 48 hours.

Hopps sniffles and wipes a tear from her eye.


          Alright, get in here.

Hopps leans her head on Nick's chest. He gives her a hug.


          Okay. Oh, you bunnies... You're so
          emotional. There we go. Deep
          breath.
              
          Are you just trying to steal the
          pen. Is that what this is?
              
          You are standing on my tail,
          though. Off, off, off.


          I'm sorry.




Hopps drives as Nick sits shotgun-- eating blueberries.


          I thought you guys only grew
          carrots.
              
          What's the plan?


          We are gonna follow the night
          howlers.


          Okay. How?


              
          Know this guy?


          Uh-huh. I told you, I know
          everybody.





We find the weasel selling crappy knock-off merchandise on a
street corner.


          Well, hello, step right up!
          Anything you need... I got it. All
          your favorite movies! I got movies
          that haven't even been released
          yet!

An ARMADILLO CUSTOMER scans an array of blatant knock-off
movies like "Wreck-it Rhino," "Wrangled," and "Pig Hero 6."


          Hey, 15% off! 20! Make me an offer!
          Come on!


              
          Well, well, look who it is. The
          duke of bootleg.


          What's it to you, Wilde? Shouldn't
          you be melting down a popsicle or
          something?
              
          Hey, if it isn't Flopsy the Copsy.


          We both know those weren't moldy
          onions I caught you stealing. What
          were you gonna do with those night
          howlers, Wessleton?


          It's Weaselton. Duke Weaselton. And
          I ain't talking, rabbit. And ain't
          nothing you can do to make me.

Weaselton flicks a toothpick in her face. Hopps smiles at
Nick.




We find polar bears holding the weasel over the ice pit.


          Ice `em.




          Aaagh! Agh!
              
          Ya dirty rat! Why ya helping her?!
          She's a cop!


          And the godmother to my future
          granddaughter.

Reveal: FRU FRU is pregnant.


          I'm gonna name her Judy.


          Aw.


              
          Ice this weasel.


          All right, all right, please! I'll
          talk! I'll talk. I stole them night
          howlers so I could sell `em. They
          offered me what I couldn't
          refuse... Money.


          And to whom did you sell them?


          A ram named Doug. We got a drop
          spot underground...




Nick and Hopps approach an abandoned subway station.


          ...Just watch it. Doug is the
          opposite of friendly. He's
          unfriendly...

They arrive at the entrance and quickly sneak under the gate.




They emerge on a platform and spot an abandoned subway car.




          Come on!

As they sneak up to it... Hopps pulls open the window and
looks inside the car. They both jump into...




They both see the rows of night howlers.


          The weasel wasn't lying.


          Yeah, looks like old Doug's
          cornered the market on night
          howlers...

Click! A door opens off screen! They quickly hide under a
desk as a TOUGH SHEEP LABWORKER enters.

He goes through the process of harvesting the pollen,
eventually producing a small, blue paint ball pellet of night
howler toxin. Nick and Hopps watch it all.

The Sheep's phone RINGS.


              
          You got Doug here. What's the mark?
          Cheetah in Sahara Square. Got it.

The Sheep loads a gun, cocks it. We see a MAP with pictures
of a various animal targets.


              
          Serious? Yeah, I know they're fast.
          I can hit him. Listen, I hit a tiny
          little otter through the open
          window of a moving car.

Hearing this, the pieces of the puzzle start falling into
place for Hopps. She looks up at the picture of Otterton-- we
FLASHBACK to see Doug hitting him with a serum pellet. Then
Hopps looks at Manchas's picture-- we FLASHBACK to that.


              
          Yeah I'll buzz you when it's done.
          Or you'll see it on the news. Ya
          know, whichever comes first.



BAM, BAM, BAM! The goons have returned.


          Hey Doug, open up! We've got your
          latte.


               
          Alright, Woolter and Jesse are
          back, so I'm leaving now.
               
          Out.

Hopps looks around, what is she going to do. As Doug goes to
the door to unlock it, Hopps creeps out of their hiding spot.


          Hey. Hey! Where are you going? Get
          back here! What are you doing?!
          He's gonna see you! What are you
          looking at? Hey! Whatever you're
          thinking, stop thinking it.
          Carrots! Carrots!


          It better have the extra foam this
          time--

BAM! Hopps kicks Woolter in the back, knocking him into the
other two Thugs. Hopps locks the door.


          Hey, open up!

The Thugs start banging on the doors.


          What are you doing?! You just
          trapped us in here!


          We need to get this evidence to the


Nick picks up the case.


          Okay. Great. Here it is. Got it.


          No. All of it!


          Wait, what?



Hopps rushes to the control room, tries to start the engine.


          Great, you're a conductor now? Hey,
          listen-- It would take a miracle to
          get this rust-bucket going.

The train starts moving.


          Well... Hallelujah!





              
          We kinda got a situation at the
          lab...
              
          Oh! It just got worse!

Doug and his minions race after the train.






Nick and Hopps race away, feeling fairly confident.


          Mission accomplished. Would it be
          premature for me to do a little
          victory toot-toot?


          All right. One toot-toot.

Nick blows the train whistle.


          Well, I can cross that off the
          bucket list.

Things are looking up, when:

BAM! Woolter just busted into the car. Nick slams the door
closed right before Woolter gets to them.


          I may have to rescind that victory
          toot-toot.



Noise from the roof above them... BAM! BAM! BAM!


          Maybe that's just hail?

Uh-oh. Jesse busts through the window. He's stuck, but
flailing at Hopps. Nick tries to pull him away.


          Back off!

Nick gets punched backward and notices Woolter charging
toward the door at full speed. Right before Woolter arrives,
Nick pulls the door open.


          Incoming!

Woolter's momentum carries him into Jesse-- dislodging him
onto the tracks. Hopps is knocked out the window, but grabs
onto Woolter's horn. Hopps tries to hang on as the subway car
hurtles down the tunnel.


          Carrots?!


              
          Don't stop! Keep going!


              
          No! No! Please stop!


          Do not stop this car!

Jesse dives to safety and Hopps gets bucked up onto the top
of the train. Nick takes the wheel as the train emerges above
ground. Hopps looks up to see... Another train coming toward
them... on the same track! She sees a turn-off switch ahead.


          Speed up, Nick! Speed up!


              
          There's another train coming!


          Trust me! SPEED! UP!

Woolter sees the train coming and tries to get unstuck, but
he can't. He struggles like crazy.




            Stop the train! Hey!

Then, at the last second, Hopps appears next to him:


            Hey. Need some help?

Hopps kicks Woolter off the train and he lands perfectly on
the turn-off switch on the tracks below. At the last possible
second, their train switches tracks-- just avoiding the
oncoming car.

Except...


            Oh no! Oh no, no, no! Too fast!
            Hold on!

The train derails as it takes the curve. The night howlers
catch fire.


            I think this is our stop!

Hopps and Nick dive out of the car and onto a subway
platform... Just as the lab car EXPLODES.


            Okay... Maybe some of the evidence
            survived.

A second loud EXPLOSION. The train is destroyed.


            Everything is gone. We've lost it
            all.


                
            Yeah. Oh, except for this.

Nick holds up a case-- containing a gun and a pellet.


            Oh, Nick! Yes!

Judy SMACKS him on the arm. Hard. Nick grimaces.


            Ow.




          Come on! We gotta get to the ZPD.
          Cut through the Natural History
          Museum!




Nick and Hopps race through the empty museum. The ZPD
entrance is just ahead.


          Oh! There it is!

They're going to make it.


          Judy! Judy!

Judy and Nick stop and turn. There's Bellwether, standing
behind them with TWO RAM COPS.


          Mayor Bellwether!
              
          We found out what's happening.
          Someone's darting predators with a
          serum-- that's what's making them
          go savage.


              
          I am so proud of you, Judy. You did
          just a super job.


          Thank you, ma'am.
              
          How did you know where to find us?


          I'll go ahead and I'll take that
          case now.


          You know what... I think Nick and I
          will just take this to the ZPD...

Hopps turns toward the ZPD. Uh oh. One of Bellwether's RAMS
is blocking the way. Nick just now gets what's going on.


Run!                            Run!



They take off-- away from the ZPD-- down a dark corridor.


          Get them!

Hopps looks over her shoulder as she runs-- not seeing a
sharp WOOLY MAMMOTH TUSK sticking out. It slashes her leg,
knocking her off her feet.


          Ach!


          Ah Carrots!

Nick goes to her. Her leg is bleeding badly.


          I got ya, come here, come here.

He carries her behind a pillar.


          Okay, now just relax.

Nick digs a handkerchief from his pocket. A few BLUEBERRIES
fall out with it.


          Whoops... Blueberry?


          Pass.


          Come on out, Judy!


          Take the case. Get it to Bogo.


          I'm not gonna leave you behind.
          That's not happening.


          I can't walk.


          Just, we'll think of something.

Bellwether finally appears, flanked by the Rams.


          We're on the same team, Judy!





Bellwether talks as they look for Hopps and Nick...


          Underestimated. Under-appreciated.
          Aren't you sick of it? Predators.
          They may be strong and loud, but
          prey out-number predators 10 to
          one.

Bellwether sees a SHADOW-- RABBIT EARS. She gestures to the
RAMS-- there they are.


          Think of it-- 90 percent of the
          population, united against a common
          enemy. We'll be unstoppable.

The Rams are about to pounce on Hopps and Nick... only to
find the shadow is coming from a MUMMIFIED JACKALOPE being
illuminated by a shop light.


              
          Over there!

Hopps and Nick are making a run for it. They're going to make
it to the ZPD! When suddenly...

BAM! A RAM tackles them both, knocking the case out of Nick's
paws. Both of them fall into a sunken diorama. Bellwether,
with case in hand, looks over the edge.


          Well, you should have stayed on the
          carrot farm, huh? It really is too
          bad; I really did like you.


          What are you going to do? Kill me?


          No! Of course not... he is.

Bellwether takes the dart gun out of the case, aims at Nick
and... THWICK! She darts him.


          No! Nick?!

Nick starts to shake and crouch. Bellwether dials her phone.




          Yes, police! There's a savage fox
          in the natural history museum.
          Officer Hopps is down! Please
          hurry!

Nick is starting to turn.


          No. Nick, don't do this. Fight it.


          Oh, but he can't help it, can he?
          Since preds are just biologically
          predisposed to be savages.

Nick stalks Hopps, who tries to limp away.


          Gosh, think of the headline: "Hero
          Cop Killed By Savage Fox..."


          So that's it, prey fears predator,
          and you stay in power?


          Yeah, pretty much.


          It won't work.


          Fear always works. And I'll dart
          every predator in Zootopia to keep
          it that way.


              
          Oh, Nick! No!


          Bye-Bye, Bunny.

Nick lunges. He attacks. Hopps screams. Bellwether smiles.


          Blood, blood, blood! And death.

Bellwether looks confused. Nick stands up.




          All right, you're milking it.
          Besides, I think we got it, I think
          we got it. We got it up there,
          thank you yakkety-yak-- you laid it
          all out beautifully.


          What?

Bellwether looks at her gun, in disbelief.


          Yea, oh, are you looking for the
          serum?
              
          Well, it's right here.


          What you've got in the weapon there-
          - those are blueberries. From my
          family's farm.

Livid, Bellwether sees a blueberry in the gun's chamber.


          They are delicious.
              
          You should try some.


          I framed Lionheart, I can frame you
          too! It's my word against yours!


          Oooo, actually--

Hopps holds up the carrot pen.


          And I'll dart every predator in
          Zootopia to keep it that way...


          --It's your word against yours.
          It's called a hustle, sweetheart.
          Boom.

Bogo and a TEAM OF COPS burst onto the scene. Bellwether
looks to run but there's nowhere to go. She's nailed.







A PREDATOR-PREY news team reads the headlines. FOOTAGE shows
Bellwether being led to jail in cuffs and an orange jumpsuit.


          Former Mayor Dawn Bellwether is
          behind bars today, guilty of
          masterminding the savage attacks
          that have plagued Zootopia of late.


          Her predecessor, Leodore Lionheart,
          denies any knowledge of her plot,
          claiming he was just trying to
          protect the city.

A FELINE REPORTER, KITTY COWLICK, interviews Lionheart.


          Did I falsely imprison those
          animals? Well, yes. Yes I did. It
          was a classic "doing the wrong
          thing for the right reason" kind of
          a deal.




          In related news, doctors say the
          night howler antidote is proving
          effective in rehabilitating the
          afflicted predators...




Mr. Otterton, who wakes up into the arms of his wife.


          Emmitt? Oh... Emmitt...

She hugs him and he holds her tight. We pull back to reveal
Hopps in the room, watching their reunion.


              
          Thank you.





Hopps walks through the CENTRAL PLAZA of ZOOTOPIA. She looks
around to see animals coming back together. She focuses on
two KIDS: one pred, one prey playing soccer.


          When I was a kid, I thought
          Zootopia was this perfect place
          where everyone got along and anyone
          could be anything...

Hopps kicks the soccer ball with the kids.


          Turns out, real life's a little bit
          more complicated than a slogan on a
          bumper sticker. Real life is messy.

AT THE ZPD: Hopps enters to find Clawhauser back at his desk,
unpacking. What's more-- TWO COPS approach him with donuts.


          We all have limitations. We all
          make mistakes. Which means-- hey,
          glass half full!-- we all have a
          lot in common. And the more we try
          to understand one another, the more
          exceptional each of us will be. But
          we have to try.




Reveal: Hopps is giving a commencement address to the
GRADUATES of the Police Academy.


          So, no matter what type of animal
          you are, from the biggest elephant
          to our first fox...

Reveal: Nick is a cadet. He removes his shades, winks at
Hopps.


          I implore you... try. Try to make
          the world a better place.

On stage, Hopps readies to pin a BADGE on Nick. As she
approaches, they exchange a nod-- a small, sincere gesture.
She places the badge, then gives Nick an official salute.




          Look inside yourself, and recognize
          that change starts with you. It
          starts with me. It starts with all
          of us.

Caps are thrown in the air. The music fades out, leaving just
the APPLAUSE, which is interrupted by:


          All right! All right...






Hopps and Nick  sit together among ZPD's
finest. Bogo stands at the podium.


          ...Enough! Shut it! We have some
          new recruits with us this morning,
          including our first fox. Who cares.


          Ha! You should have your own line
          of inspirational greeting cards,
          sir.


          Shut your mouth, Wilde.
          Assignments! Officers Grizzoli,
          Fangmeyer, Delgato: Tundratown
          Swat. Snarlov, Higgins, Wolfard:
          Undercover. Hopps, Wilde...
              
          Parking duty. Dismissed.
              
          Just kidding! We have reports of a
          street racer tearing up Savannah
          Central. Find him, shut him down.




Hopps drives. Nick rides shotgun, eating a Pawpsickle.


          So are all rabbits bad drivers or
          is it just you?

She slams on the brakes. He lurches forward, accidentally
jamming the Pawpsickle into his face.




          Oops. Sorry.


              
          Sly bunny.


          Dumb fox.


          You know you love me.


          Do I know that? Yes. Yes, I do.

They smile wide. They're stopped at a red light, when
suddenly-- a TRICKED OUT RED SPORTS CAR blasts through the
light! They look at each other and smile even wider.

Hopps stomps on the gas. Nick hits the siren. The patrol car
takes off...




The fleeing sports car comes to a screeching halt. ANGLE ON
the license plate: FST NML. Hopps and Nick exit their car and
approach the driver.


          Sir, you were going 115 miles per
          hour. I hope you have a good
          explanation.

But when they get to the driver's window...


          Flash? Flash? Hundred yard dash?!

Yep. It's Flash the sloth.


              
          Nick.




